US	53067931	R1194YJZ6FRCLW	0820324477	64289209	Jekyll Island's Early Years: From Prehistory through Reconstruction (Wormsloe Foundation Publication Ser.)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	history and lore of a noted Georgia island	Nine miles long and two miles wide, \\"Jekyll's island is the smallest of Georgia's Golden Isles.\\" A teacher at Middle Tennessee State U., in this third book of her's on Georgia's Jekyll's Island, McCash gives a panoramic view of its history from its original Native American inhabitants through effects on the Island from events in the Revolutionary and Civil Wars up to when it was made into a club in 1886 for many of the wealthiest individuals in the country. This club was the prototype for later exclusive spots on other islands along the coast of Southeastern states for wealthy and well-known individuals from all walks of life. McCash follows the centuries-long history largely through the positions and activities of individuals of the different periods with respect to the Island. Among these are English colonists, settlers, soldiers, slaves and slave-owners, and men who sought to restore the Island from the neglect it had fallen into after the Civil War. McCash's work of regional history offers an extended background on the one small island in this area which has attracted national attention for its popularity with politicians, celebrities, and wealthy businesspersons.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	RRZWEOAFPPG52	0887556817	468439154	Travelling Knowledges: Positioning the Im/Migrant Reader of Aboriginal Literatures in Canada (Literary Criticism)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	deeper, broader appreciation of literature of indigenous Canadians by immigrants to Canada	Eigenbrod explains the unusual term \\"Im/Migrant\\" of the subtitle: \\"I read Canadian Indigenous literatures from an immigrant perspective, but in a migrant fashion.\\" This allows for a dualistic understanding \\"that can understand texts different from us and understand them to be different from us...\\"; a subtle distinction whose two elements allow for not only conceptual understanding, but also aesthetic and cultural appreciation of aboriginal literatures by recognition of the traditions and ways of life they are rooted in. Eigenbrod's work is not about ancient Native American folk tales, myths, etc., but about coming to proper--literarily, culturally, and ethically proper--understandings of modern and contemporary First Nations literature as much as this is possible by outsiders. A primary, though not dominating strand of the work of literary analysis and cultural understanding is the author's biographical story of how she came to the positioning (method or structure are too strong) she expounds as a German-Canadian. The proper understanding of Native American literature she develops and commends depends partly on comprehending one's own ethnicity, heritage, position in society, and personality. Eigenbrod is a teacher of Aboriginal Literature at the U. of Manitoba.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	R14RVC36JF5EMA	0809326426	323756079	Creating Historical Drama: A Guide for Communities, Theatre Groups, and Playwrights	Books	5	0	0	N	N	comprehensive guide for writing, producing, promoting, etc., historical dramas	The authors with both academic and working experience in theater production relate general guidance and practical considerations for evaluating resources, organizing activities, and engaging in relevant, skilled, coordinated actions for a community theater group to stage a successful historical drama. The crucial challenge of finding and developing talented actors is not overlooked either. Success for such a community production is measured by standards of artistic performance, community service, and management responsibility. Historical dramas are particularly appealing to community theater groups because of the wide freedom they allow in dealing with different historical times, the range of important and often colorful characters, and recurring issues in human affairs. Historical plays can also have a high education value for a local population when local historical characters, scenes, and topics are portrayed. All dimensions of this type of drama particularly suited to community theaters are dealt with, from developing an idea and perspective, writing a script, staging, and engaging with the larger community. This second edition is an abridged revision of the first edition put out in 1965.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	R1RMA0ZW167TG7	193133725X	919278877	Salt Water Amnesia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	poems touching the heart of common experience	In the same six-line stanza of \\"Widow's Walk,\\" Skinner can write, \\"If the heart could think, it would stop...,\\" and \\"Sleep, the book that reads us.\\" You think you could write these lines, they are so simple and direct. Yet of course you can't. You're not a poet with Skinner's unique gift of plain language artfully used to articulate the common life. This is not revelation, but rather memory. Skinner continually brings to mind--brings back to mind--moments everyone has experienced physically or in thought, but has not had the time or made the effort to reflect much on. Thus, there is in these poems a sense of familiarity; which is one thing that leads one to wrongly believe one could write the same words Skinner does. Skinner leads one to familiarity with aspects of one's life, often aspects one has missed, sometimes neglected. Skinner is a seasoned, widely-published poet whose work has appeared in Poetry, Yale Review, Slate, Paris Review, and elsewhere.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	R2B7MWVQIOBJ2M	9067182141	228148089	The Heritage of Traditional Malay Literature: A Historical Survey of Genres, Writings and Literary Views (Verhandelingen Van Het Koninklijk Instituut Voor Taal-, Land- En Volkenkunde)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	scholarly study of Malay literature	A rich literature dating back to the seventh century which reflects Sanskrit and Islamic elements and forms, Persian and Sufi poetics, and philosophical concepts of Plato and Aristotle as these were filtered through various Middle Eastern and Asian lands, Malay literature is nonetheless ethnically and geographically confined so that it is possible to \\"embrace at a single glance...the relative completeness of its forms and themes.\\" Braginsky, Professor of Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures at the University of London, does so; although for him to refer to his voluminous, impressively scholarly study ranging from generalizations to meticulous examination of lines of poetry as a \\"glance\\" is an understatement if ever there was one. Practically speaking, Malay literature as a distinct literary tradition is no more, having been effaced by the social and cultural forces of the modern world. Besides, the Malay culture of Southeast Asia never had the vast population and large geographical reach of the dominant regional powers of China and India. Yet Malay literature managed to exert an outsized, though limited, influence on the incomparably more widespread, lasting regional literatures for its richness from the way it \\"fused, adapted, transfigured, and indiginized\\" the varied influences it came into contact with as well as for the complex forms it worked over the course of its periods defined by Braginsky. One wishes for more samplings of Malay writings. But more would have made a large and dauntingly complete and learned book with an 80-page bibliography larger, though perhaps less daunting. No matter--ones solidly motivated to learn about Malay literature will gain from the work what they need to know for a full appreciation of its historical background, subjects, and forms, and for Western readers, its exoticism.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	RGZ294SQHFDV6	1572333626	7537957	Tennessee's Radical Army: The State Guard and its Role in Reconstruction, 1867-1869	Books	5	6	7	N	N	role of Tennessee State Guard after the Civil War	With 500 newly freed African Americans among its members, the 2,000-strong Tennessee State Guard played a crucial role in allowing for elections and keeping the elected Republican governor in office in Tennessee in the first years of Reconstruction after the Civil War. Severance (assistant professor, Auburn U.) refers to this state militia as \\"radical\\" because it was used by Brownlow and others who \\"styled themselves radical Republicans.\\" These \\"radicals,\\" however, were the duly elected, legitimate political leaders of Tennessee at the time. The determined resistance they met from many Tennesseans, however, including the Ku Klux Klan, made the Northern victory in the Civil War seem \\"the most gigantic falsehood of the age,\\" as one Radical Republican put it. The State Guard's role has been controversial since Reconstruction. But Severance views it mostly favorably, while not leaving out the controversial aspects of its role. It filled a role between local authorities who were part of the resistance or helpless to curtail it and the Federal authorities and troops who regarded it as outside their jurisdiction. Without the State Guard, Tennessee would have been mostly lawless. Severence studies its necessary, irreplaceable role in laying the political and legal groundwork, however controversial and flawed this was, which the victorious Union side had fought for in the Civil War. This thankless task fell to the Guard, which met it effectively and respectably.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	R3RQAQFIEEGRL1	0870137409	767820245	Quebec During the American Invasion, 1775-1776: The Journal of Francois Baby, Gabriel Taschereau, and Jenkin Williams	Books	5	4	4	N	N	printing of important Canadian document relating to American Revolutionary War	The three writers of the journal were agents sent by the British governor of Quebec, Sir Guy Carleton, to travel among the surrounding parishes and missions to find out who had lent support to the American troops in their invasion of Canada during the Revolutionary War. The Americans knew that they had support among some of the French-Canadian \\"habitants\\" (i. e., peasants). Though this support turned out not to be widespread or effective enough to help the Americans to victory, Carleton wanted to weed the supporters out of the local militias. In their journal, Baby and the others reported parish by parish the actions they took against individuals posing a threat to British control of Canada and the reasons for this. Some militia men performed military duties such as standing guard for the invading rebel forces; others encouraged support for them; and others offered them food or transpiration. Carleton's punitive measures were mild, dismissal from the militia in most cases; but they were effective in virtually eliminating what support there was for the Americans among the French-Canadian peasants. The journal is an important historical document first published in the 1920s.	2005-09-27
US	53067931	R1XAIU9PJ8RTLR	1932656030	817606271	Phase One After Zero: Where 9/11 Never Happened	Books	5	0	0	N	N	inside view of terrorist characters and network in plotting 9/11	The prolific Chernozemsky adds this novel to the recent works of popular fiction prompted by 9/11. Except in Chernozemsky's \\"Phase One After Zero,\\" the attack on the World Trade Towers is aborted even as the terrorist plot is unfolding with the planes already in the air. Greg MacPherson struggles with Abu Atta, the terrorist ringleader, on the roof of one of the Trade Towers as CIA and FBI officials work desperately to bring into action the countermeasures to prevent the varied attacks. <br />      MacPherson is modeled psychologically on Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma City bomber; except that he has a change of heart as the deadly plot is nearing its culmination. Chernozemsky is interested in exploring \\"parallel dimensions\\" whose possibility reveals the alternate paths of history and the related different situations for individuals and Humankind. \\"What we think of our life on planet Earth, the people and the places, could be just reflections in parallel mirrors, where history changes, takes different paths, or maybe is simply postponed and eventually arrives at the same outcome because the course of history may be irrevocable.\\" <br />     MacPherson leaves the U. S. by going to Canada on his way to meet with the leaders of Al-Qaeda, including Osama bin Laden, in the Middle East. As MacPherson is brought into the terrorist circle and he and other plotters return to the U. S. to lay the groundwork for their sensational terrorist acts, the reader is exposed to the demented, yet rigorously rationalistic mind of the terrorists and their ruses to evade detection. <br />     As he has done in many of his previous novels, Chernozemsky uses this premise of a parallel dimension and narrative of how it might be played out to good effect. In terms of a compelling dramatic line, the author also sheds light on his larger themes of the complexities and related unpredictabilities of human nature and the coincidences which make for history affecting the lives of millions of persons and the fate of nations. Chernozemsky has used this technique previously in novels based on World War II and the ethnic strife in the Balkans. Readers of imaginative popular literature with distinctive characters, absorbing intrigue, and riveting action will find this book rewarding.	2005-09-20
US	53067931	R1ZM3HURFFCAL6	3897902176	169989411	Czech Glass 1945-1980: Design in an Age of Adversity	Books	5	16	16	N	N	excellent work on all aspects of this notable type of art glass	The large middle section, pages 136-370, is a catalog of mostly color photographs of Czech glass of the period covered done by the leading, most artistically skilled, glassmakers. This bountiful catalog demonstrates why Czech glass has in the relatively short time since the 1970s when it became widely known throughout Europe and other Western countries one of the most sought-after types of art glass. But the catalog is only the beginning of the varied, extensive content of this coffee-table size work of value to those with a specialized, well-developed interest in the field of glass. Eight introductory essays by experts cover Czech glass from its artistic and historical origins through its worldwide recognition largely from a 1959 exhibition in Moscow and designs for glass works kept at the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, New York. Back matter (appendices) include bibliographical annotations of the glass artists; which besides their photographs, includes awards, exhibitions, and references in printed works. The back section after this has facsimiles of all of the artists' signatures. There are also informative sections supplementing the essays preceding the catalog. From aesthetic appreciation of the glass to information on the artists and the industry to crucial technical material such as signatures and more, \\"Czech Glass\\" contains everything anyone could be looking for on this subject.	2005-09-07
US	53067931	R3OJBZBOX3HQPT	0786424451	34590543	The Coins And Banknotes of Palestine Under the British Mandate, 1927-1947	Books	5	2	2	N	N	knowledgeable and instructive guide to Palestine currency during this short period	Besides all of the coins and banknotes, also dealt with is the puzzling \\"1927 Holyland Token.\\" Whether this \\"token\\" with a minting of only 500 copies was meant as a limited type of currency or a souvenir of Palestine has never been definitively answered. A middle-section of color photos along with many black-and-white ones--both kinds sharply focused allowing for inspection of details--aid collectors in studying the currency during this brief period in a small area of the Middle East and in making comparisons with specimens at hand. Berlin's five pages of references lead readers to more specialized, detailed material than what is succinctly contained here. Berlin is the author of more than 30 books, most of these references and guides to different subjects; and he holds three patents.	2005-09-07
US	53067931	R12D6HOQGUW30K	1593720130	929248878	Wooden Ships & Iron Men: The Maritime Art of Thomas Hoyne	Books	5	15	15	N	N	painttings commemorating and celebrating wooden fishing ships and their crews	American artist Hoyne does not romanticize the sea and men in interaction with it - he simply paints it. Yet his maritime paintings are more than plain realism, though they arise out of it. By angles of wave-tossed ships, contrasts of white splashes of spray and darker sea depths, near and distant objects, sails caught by wind to make different shapes, the casually strewn, but ready gear, and the rugged garments and practiced movements of the seamen and their calm, but focused expressions, Hoyne conveys the different facets of the natural element of the sea and the labors of sailors and fishermen who have grown so accustomed to these that they seem natural parts of the sea. The introductory text includes the bases of the authors' appreciation of Hoyne (basically because they saw in his paintings a realism with soul) and also the better part of a talk the artist gave at the Mystic Seaport Museum in 1983. Hoyne died in 1989, having devoted the last years of his life after being diagnosed with cancer in 1972 and given only two years to live to capturing the time--now mostly gone--when men in wooden sailing ships made their livings fishing in the Grand Banks of the North Atlantic. Full-page pictures of paintings take up most of the pages. But with these, as well as a number of smaller ones with the introductory text, are annotations or essay-like commentaries on the particular painting which often include references to aspects of this passing traditional work. Though not yet widely known, Hoyne is recognized immediately as in the top tier of modern-time maritime painters. This art book is proof of this, and will stir others to be keeping their eye out for paintings of his.	2005-09-07
US	53067931	R3T93ZXGCRL9F6	0299198146	722695289	The Private Journals of Edvard Munch: We Are Flames Which Pour Out of the Earth	Books	5	13	13	N	N	journals reveal origins and sources of this famous artist's work	As the subtitle which is lines from one of Munch's poems indicates, the Norwegian painter could write poetry that was as vividly intense as many of his paintings, notably his signature painting \\"The Scream.\\" \\"The sky was like/blood--sliced with strips of fire...\\" are lines from another poem of his. The format of all of the sections from Munch's journals edited by the poet and literary critic Holland are broken into lines as if the content was entirely poems. But it is not. Munch's varied entries are perceptive on local events and persons of the day, his relationships with others, self-examination and self-discovery, and psychological insights. \\"The nervous talk a lot. Craziness often expresses itself in incessant talking. Talking has become...a sort of defense against other people...When I am talking I tax anyone I am with, as if I've taken him prisoner,\\" he writes in the entry titled \\"On Talking.\\" A friend of the famous writers Ibsen and Knut Hamsen, Munch appreciated the power of words and the skill of writers. He obviously took care to write as precisely and truly as he could, even for his \\"private journals\\"; here published more extensively than ever with a faithful, empathetic translation and concise introduction. With these journals, one sees behind the revolutionary paintings to the mind of the extraordinary painter who could make them.	2005-09-07
US	53067931	R2CVS0H5YBE0AU	8889431342	814955239	Francesco Nonino: Atmospheres	Books	5	0	0	N	N	contemporary Italian artist's sharp photographs of skies and clouds	Valtorta titles her introductory essay aptly \\"The Skies of the Land.\\" In Nonino's photographs--38 of them shown full-page on right-hand pages with titles on facing left-hand pages--the land has an inextricable connection to the sky; but not one of possession. Rather, the title means more something like the \\"lord of the land.\\" For without the enveloping, expansive skies of the sharply-focused photographs, the persons, activities, buildings, and other parts of the scenes would not be. Despite the sharpness of the variously simple or multi-part foregrounds, the viewer's eye is drawn to the sky of each photograph. The sky dwarfs even mountain ranges in the background. The titles of the photographs are scientific names for the clouds in the skies; Cirrus fibratus, Cumulus mediocris, etc. The scientific preciseness of the photograph's titles and their clarity suggests no interpretation of them, no particular way of seeing them. It is by one's eye searching through them--attracted by the details which stand out, the cloud formations, and the endlessness of the sky--that one comes to an awareness of the \\"atmospheres\\" enveloping and pervading human life on earth. This is the first collection of Nonino's photography; which has been shown in solo and group exhibitions mostly in Italy and is a part of collections in Italy and France.	2005-09-07
US	53067931	R1COKV9PZAH5DN	3791333879	414648689	Anselm Kiefer Heaven and Earth	Books	5	25	27	N	N	restrospective of this notable artist's career and art	The German artist Kiefer's first project titled \\"The Heavens\\" (\\"Die Himmel\\") sounded the note for the major theme of his work through the following decades. This first was a book-like project with several leaves completed in 1969. Coming after this were sculpture-like, installation-like works (before this form was widely practiced) using the earthy materials of lead, brick, metal, wood, cloth, and often cast-off materials, as used in \\"found\\" art, though with not nearly the effect. Born in 1945, Kiefer could never free himself from the oppressiveness of the German psychoses and atrocities of the Nazi years, especially being a Jew. \\"[Kiefer] does not assume the existence of a paradise, only the ancient need to imagine one.\\" One sees in the artist's dense, bewitching works usually made of assorted materials this primitive longing for paradise impacted by the carnage and horrors of 20th century's crazed politics and warfare on a huge scale. The touches of brightness in many of Kiefer's works are sometimes overwhelmed by bricks and other materials the color of cinders, ashes, an unmistakable reference to the Holocaust and the \\"scorched earth\\" warfare waged by the German war machine. It is the natural materials of the art works such as leaves, ground, and cotton spun into clothing, not religious visions of Heaven, which offer any hope of transformative redemption and immortality there may be. As noted in the \\"Introduction,\\" Kiefer regarded the earth as a \\"kind of alchemical fragment\\" still being forged. \\"In Kiefer's cosmology, the universe is an immense athanor, or alchemical oven, where spirit and matter are in continued process of creation and destruction.\\" The book succeeds estimably as a retrospective on the span of Kiefer's career. Varying perspectives from distant to close-up on the art works enable one to grasp the complex historical, cultural, and mythical thoughts reflected in the composite, multilayered works and also the undying struggle between hope and memory embodied in them.	2005-09-07
US	53067931	R10V0IKDE0WS60	9068321927	782090652	The World of Tattoo: An Illustrated History	Books	5	17	17	N	N	heavily-illustrated encyclopedic survey of tattoos in world's cultures	The encyclopedic work answers the fascination with tattoos in contemporary society by focusing on the origin and purpose of tattoos in ancient and aboriginal cultures in all parts of the world. In modern society, tattoos are a matter of personal choice and often personal design, whereas in ancient and aboriginal societies, a tattoo was \\"the tribal variant...generally applied according to custom and associated with taboos and magic.\\" These \\"variants\\" are covered in richly-illustrated, anthropological-like chapters on the different areas of the world. Innumerable illustrations include color photographs of tattooed individuals, historical art works showing tattoos, photographs of tattoos being put on, tattooing instruments, and close-ups of tattoos showing their details. With its diversity of captivating visual matter, encyclopedic scope, and informative, general-interest text, \\"The World of Tattoo\\" is a leading text on this subject of renewed interest in contemporary life; and it can also be used as a reference for tattooing in particular cultures or particular historical eras.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R22FQ8BB7OA9QR	0815608136	104667676	New York Poems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	the teeming and absorbing diversity of New York streets	Melham's world is expansive and diverse, filled with teeming humanity, hopeful, indefatigable life. She's the \\"daughter of Lebanese immigrants and a native of Brooklyn [who feels she is] quintessentially American.\\" The abundant life in her poems is mostly in the upper West Side of New York, where she now lives. It has come to her as traditional immigrant groups and newly arrived ones, and the myriad activities and behaviors of the huge population of a vibrant and crowded city. \\"Broadway Music\\" goes in part, \\"And the old men sing with her/they dream through the curving wood and metal/and the forms of the sounds that go out/as if the dirty newspapers and today's news/the people running up subway stairs/the dogs the pimps the hustlers....\\" This calls to mind Lorca's vision of New York, the eye of a newcomer. The bustle and melange of street life is not the hollow motions of idlers and the aimless, but the music of the infinite dreams and constant negotiations of the nameless, but not faceless nor anonymous, population.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	RUTKDB6Z3MYCW	1592286798	836488427	Driver: Six Weeks in an Eighteen-Wheeler	Books	5	6	6	N	N	appentice driver's journal of life as a long-haul truck driver	Wilson's journal of his time as a driver trainee for an eighteen-wheeler truck is a travelogue across much of America combined with the work, lore, and challenges of driving such a mammoth truck. Wilson decided to give this occupation a try after losing a job he had in management, the field he went into after service in the Navy. The author's combustible relationship with the driver who was training also makes for much of the unfailingly colorful, light tale. Wilson and his trainer spent long hours together in the cab of the eighteen-wheeler. The rewards and low points--though never regrets--of driving one of these behemoths across desert and mountain, prairie and forest to deliver goods to towns and cities across the country has never been more amply and engagingly described.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R1MROZIKJAZDZV	1868726525	459850435	Battle For Zimbabwe: The Final Countdown	Books	5	9	9	N	N	how Zimbabwe's struggle for freedom was betrayed	Africa correspondent for the Washington Times who grew up in different countries of southern Africa, including Zimbabwe, Hill gives a detailed account of the overthrow of the white-controlled government when the country was known as Rhodesia by indigenous black rebels and the subsequent cementing of the autocratic, often brutal rule of Robert Mugabe. Mugabe was one of the leaders of the insurrection and political leader of Zimbabwe (as the country was named after the end of white rule). To a large extent, this is the story of the murky circumstances whereby Mugabe became leader of the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU), including the assassination of its leader, and its role in helping to keep him in power. Instead of a bona fide political party in a democratic system, ZANU became the enforcement arm of Mugabe's one-man rule. Hill's chronicle of unfortunate Zimbabwe and biographical portrayal of its autocratic leader is a set piece in how things have gone wrong in many countries in Africa.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R251UZEXLZNRPL	0820327441	941994422	Converging Stories: Race, Ecology, and Environmental Justice in American Literature	Books	5	3	4	N	N	the racism inherent in degradation of the environment	Myers--assistant professor of English at Manhattan College--explores the roots of his belief that \\"racial oppression and environmental destruction [are] inherently and historically related\\" by critiques of the founding views toward nature in American society--Jefferson's \\"Notes on the State of Virginia\\" and Thoreau's \\"Walden.\\" With his deconstructive treatment of these, Myers discloses that these two influential authors set up a bifurcated scheme leaving nature and individuals apart from one another, with individuals having mastery over nature. This \\"bifurcation\\" based on Thoreau's ideas of social reform and environmentalism in his writings \\"reproduces the human/nature duality at the root of ecological and racial hegemony.\\" Thoreau came to feel uneasy about this bifurcation; but he never explicitly renounced it or went beyond it even implicitly in his writings. To find expressions of the harmony, rather than the duality, between the human and nature inextricably bound in with real equality, Myers turns to works by Native Americans, but also by African Americans and some American authors of European heritage. African Americans essentially and intuitively have this harmony with nature from their origins in Africa and also their work on the land as slaves in America. He points to the 1988 nonfiction book \\"Mississippi Solo\\" by the African-American writer Eddy L. Harris--\\"an account of his solo canoe trip down the length of the Mississippi River\\"--as containing the \\"ecocentricity that respects the intrinsic value of the larger world and from which springs a consciousness of human equality and an imperative for social justice.\\" Myers does not attempt an exhaustive study of his subject, but rather presents a relatively abbreviated, though well-developed study of it; and along with this, persuasive analysis and reasoning in support of his point of view.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R2OFDP0EPV9OP	0972304541	978095979	The Singers I Prefer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	poems influenced by music and exploring the nature of music	What Barter says in the poem \\"On a Beethoven Cello Sonata\\" could also be said about his own poems: \\"The strain/that labors cadence after cadence toward/resolution, wresting its course away/from the pestering piano, arrives/only after everything is so changed/that where it meant to go is no longer/possible....\\" Similarly, you never know where Barter's poems are going to go. But this doesn't mean they are anarchic, or are simply pleasing or inspired gatherings of images. Like music, the poems have no reason, but rather play out intimations and ideas inhering in their animating moods, memories, and thoughts. Though Barter uses a Beethoven cello sonata in tendering something about music which also wittingly or by intuition or chance refers to his own poetry, Barter's poetry is more like Bach's music than Beethoven's. The emotional restraint and preciseness of Barter's poems makes them more like Bach's music.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R3MDID5T4D399Z	9068321862	930099734	Behind the Scenes of Hindi Cinema: A Visual Journey through the Heart of Bollywood	Books	5	9	9	N	N	the lively, colorful world of Bollywood	The heavily-illustrated work imparts the carnivalesque style of the now globally popular Bollywood films of India--the exotic, often extravagant, costumes, the promotional stunts, the common themes such as traditional morality and romance and marriage, the blaring music, the theater and constant motion and sense of anticipation and surprise. In the foreword, Amitabh Bachchan explains the Bollywood films are \\"inspired by epic and folk theatre.\\" In the early days of the films, movie moguls would send messengers with drums to announce a film's opening; like Indian royalty in ages past would have bells and drums sounded to call the public for an announcement. The often collage-like visual material is so vivid and jumpy that it can override the text. But for ones looking for material on the making and promotion of Bollywood films, social and religious subjects reflected in them, their distribution in the global entertainment system, and the marginal, yet influential Tamil cinema, it's found in substantive chapters by different writers knowledgeable in these areas. A timely, unique work on the Bollywood films whose mixed, yet focused content mirrors the mixed elements and vitality of such films.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R3M8CFLHKXEASN	0971898189	973947673	Living Room	Books	5	0	0	N	N	poems playing with ambivalence	Bouvier finds an ebullience and often amusement in ambivalence. No Hamlet is he, riddled with doubts. He gets above the ambivalences by a bright, sometimes almost mocking style. This obviously does not get to any answers, or even any ways out of the ambivalences. But it surely presents an unfamiliar, entertaining view on this common state. Bouvier can write, \\"If we touched hands, it was too much. We touched hands. It was not enough...We lost ourselves, we found a house. We found a house, we lost the house.\\" (\\"The House In Order\\") He ends \\"Somebody Stop LaSalle, \\"To the left and right fantasies. Come amok with me.\\" The insouciant style yields fetching, occasionally intriguing wordplay.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R2THOGU0MOZJML	1880656930	194353427	Stray Dogs & Lone Wolves: The Samurai Film Handbook	Books	5	6	6	N	N	popular introduction to these popular Japanese films	Dissatisfied with the academic reference books on this popular Japanese film genre of samurai films, the longtime student of Asian and Japanese culture Galloway wrote this jaunty, learned reference providing \\"historical background, cultural insights, production anecdotes, actor and director bios, and detailed plot synopses\\" for more than 50 of the films from the 1960s into the '90s. Besides the classics \\"Seven Samurai\\" and \\"Rashomon,\\" others of the numerous films included are \\"Three Outlaw Samurai,\\" \\"Lone Wolf and Cub: Sword of Vengeance,\\" \\"Heaven and Earth,\\" and \\"Band of Assassins,\\" as well as \\"Samurai Reincarnation\\" and \\"The Razor: Sword of Justice\\" and others in the series these two are a part of. Galloway's outstanding guide treats the films as part of the global popular culture rather than \\"foreign\\" films calling for explanation in terms of some film theory or film critic's abstruse, involved ideas.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	RBQM4X1MKO2H5	0790613131	717824138	The Savvy Guide to Fantasy Sports	Books	5	2	2	N	N	expert instruction on all kinds of fantasy sports	Fantasy sports is an area of online game-playing that is booming, like the other video games it is related to have in recent years. Harmon--a staff writer at Yahoo Sports doing columns covering many of the fantasy sports--does a manual for play which is comprehensive and in-depth, but also well-focused and reader-friendly. Each of the major sports fantasy games such as football, baseball, and auto racing as well as lesser-played sports of cricket, soccer, and also reality TV shows (similar to the sports) are dealt with in individual chapters. These chapters include many short sections so readers can learn about improving skills in the particular, complex, multifaceted games one step at a time, as if \\"having a good friend by your side.\\" A chapter \\"Ask the Experts\\" includes tips from others experienced players and recognized names in the field. In Harmon's enthusiasm, readers recognize a shared keen interest; and his knowledge will help players at any stage develop greater prowess.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R2WYWXQLUFRVI4	1931982481	157882244	The Indestructible Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	short stories about dreamers and their effects on those around them	Jablonsky does not marginalize his characters with abnormalities, but rather illustrates how their ideas, behavior, and aims affect those around them, sometimes to the point that others become involved in their impossible schemes. The abnormalities of the main characters reflect the everyday hopes, dreams, aspirations, burdens, and frustrations of the wider world of normal individuals around them. Henry's friends accept his becoming \\"unhinged\\" from the death of his wife Cora, and \\"have learned to accommodate him.\\" This \\"accommodation\\" broadens to involve helping Henry pilfer steel spikes, empty oil drums, wooden planks, and other materials he needs for a large catapult which he believes will catapult him to the moon. Watching Henry's crazed ambition come to a tragic end, the small crowd that had helped him try to fulfill it \\"for the first time...feel[s] the pull of gravity upon us.\\" Stories of Jablonsky's have appeared in the Southern Humanities Review, Beloit Fiction Journal, and other respected literary journals. Somewhat simplistic in conception and structure (probably due to the limitations of space for a short story), the stories memorably portray the sometimes subtle, even insidious, sometimes overt, even flamboyant, effects wishful thinking can have on others.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R2FUPFVUVXR067	1868729184	470604439	Memoirs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	memoirs of one of the leaders in overturning apartheid in South Africa	From Ahmed Kathrada's lifelong involvement in the thick of South Africa political activism and his 26 years in prison in the notorious Robben Island and Pollsmoor prisons for political prisoners, he became the fellow activist with and confidant of Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, and other historic figures in the struggle against that country's apartheid. And with them, Kathrada played a leading, though for the most part less visible, role in developing a post-apartheid South African political and social system. Though apartheid was abandoned years ago, the full story of the struggle against it is just now beginning to emerge, as the leaders of this struggle are finding the time to write their memoirs in their later years after moving out of the political arena and giving way to the succeeding generation of leaders. Kathrada sees his own \\"Memoirs\\" as a \\"modest addition to the growing and most welcome body of work that is emerging about a particularly significant period in South Africa's recent history.\\" Kathrada's modesty kept him from moving into the political, governing, arena as visibly as others, notably Nelson Mandela. But it's clear from this modestly-written \\"Memoirs\\" that Kathrada was a major figure in bringing apartheid to an end and setting South Africa on a new course.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R1RJCX9AFIV8CT	190074760X	109515069	Materializing The Military (Artefacts: Studies in the History of Science and Technology)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	the military and military history from perspective of objects and artifacts	This work is a part of the series named \\"Artefacts\\" associated with London's Science Museum, whose editors \\"encourage authors to use objects as evidence for their studies of the history of science and technology.\\" The eleven chapters of this volume were written by authors from universities and museums. The topics vary widely, from 15th-century Valois Burgundian artillery, World War I U.S. women's uniforms, the display of arms in museums, artifacts of the German occupation of Britain's Channel Islands in WWII, to the use and image of U.S. submarines in the Cold War. The essays get at what can be learned about the respective military forces of the time and also what can be learned about the relationship between such forces and the society of which they were a part.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R3TTH0NMT0C5P2	0292706170	712626044	The Black Death in Egypt and England: A Comparative Study	Books	5	8	9	N	N	comparison of effects of Black Death on English and Egyptian societies	Borsch's comparison is based on the different kinds of ownership of land in the two societies in the 14th century, the time when the Black Death struck Europe and the Middle East. \\"In contrast to their Egyptian counterparts, English landholders had a much more direct economic interest in the welfare and management of their estates.\\" The basic reason for this was that the English landholders could pass their land on to their heirs. By contrast, the large majority of Egyptian landowners were \\"specialized warriors known as Malmuks\\" who could not pass their land on to their heirs; and even their ownership of it was tenuous in the factional conflicts and intrigues in Egypt at the time. Borsch finds the answer to his main question of why England managed to recover economically after the Black Death while Egypt did not in this difference in land ownership. A considerable proportion of each country's population, including those who worked the land, succumbed to the plague; which some historians have likened to a nuclear holocaust in the areas it afflicted. England's system of land ownership was the decisive factor in its economic recovery in the years after the Black Death. In order to keep their land productive and thus valuable, England's landowners were obliged to adapt to the new power the surviving workers had gained in the agrarian economy with the loss of so many to the disease. The Malmuks in Egypt, on the other hand, had scant incentive to make any adaptations to hold up the value of land they had only a precarious ownership of. Borsch draws out the economic, social, and to a lesser degree the historical effects of this fundamental difference between English and Egyptian landownership in the late medieval period. An assistant professor teaching Islamic and Middle Eastern history as well as history of the world and Western civilization, he has the right learning for this work.	2005-08-29
US	53067931	R1VKNV88U6564B	1931896186	953222634	Line Break: Poetry as Social Practice	Books	5	6	6	N	N	essays by a poet breaking down arbitrary walls and mistaken assumptions	Scully says that in the eight essays he means to question the \\"fetishes we find ourselves wearing like ankle bracelets...that enable cultural overseers to shut us up in a kind of house arrest.\\" Adrienne Rich remarks in her \\"Foreword\\" on this poet's \\"fiercely demystifying intelligence.\\" Yes, Scully fiercely, uncompromisingly, brings his hopes for a truly, thoroughly humane world into the light. Such hopes are often preceded by trenchant, riveting critiques on writings, ideas, and states of affairs; and sometimes the hopes are bound in with these in a struggle. Such struggling especially is the sign that besides having a cogent moral sense and articulated vision, Scully is a consummate realist. He does not abandon common, inevitable life for promises, visions, or programs of a heavenly life. What he surely does bring to light is the true notion that \\"ankle bracelets\\" need not be an inevitable or permanent part of life, nor be the defining attribute of it. The essays mostly and ostensibly about poetry, writing style, expression and all its sources and destinations are in a larger sense and ultimately about larger life than most are accustomed to, and than most can even conceive of. The essays packed with serious and reflective thought, earnest with teaching and persuasion, and buoyant with inspiration and possibility demonstrate once again that the best writing on politics, culture, and individual life and its choices usually comes from accomplished poets such as Scully. Essays of Seamus Heaney are another example.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	RIZM3TTAJG7IC	097401902X	102196810	Little Yellow Pear Tomatoes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	tomato plants in garden as ecological example of interconnection of all parts of nature	The holistic Zen teachings of Thich Nat Hanh are behind this picture given by a young girl of everything that goes into the little yellow pear tomatoes in her family's garden. \\"A lot of not-a-tomato [italicized in original] things\\" are in them. Her mother and father are \\"in\\" the tomatoes for helping to cultivate them. Sunshine, worms, insects, and weather are also in the tomatoes because they are a part of the surrounding, ecological environment in which the tomatoes grow. Tamarin's dramatic shifts in perspective from illustration to illustration help carry this holistic message home to young readers. A farmland panorama is followed by earthworms in the ground beneath the tomato plants; in one double-page illustration, the young girl becomes smaller than a plant leaf, while in a later picture her head in shown among the planetary system.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	R3URWYKYAL3IBG	0820326038	70149428	Confluences: Postcolonialism, African American Literary Studies, and the Black Atlantic	Books	5	0	1	N	N	spread of influences in black literature in Caribbean and beyond	The \\"Black Atlantic\\" referred to in the subtitle is Paul Gilroy's \\"pathbreaking book...engaging with philosophical, sociological, historical, political, as well as literary issues.\\" The author Gruesser himself takes this approach to the interrelationships--the confluences--among postcolonial writings, African American literary works, and influences and literature in Africa and the Caribbean and their presence in other, mostly white, cultures. The term \\"black Atlantic\\" was used originally in the field of black art. Gruesser notes especially Gilroy's interest in \\"routes\\" more so than \\"roots.\\" Gruesser--professor of English at New Jersey's Kean University--develops a panoramic comprehension of the different literary areas; which are typically studied in the light of different theories. But this author is interested in the experiences, sensibilities, and cultural and historical grounds drawing the different literature together. Writings by Salman Rushdie, Naipaul, Walter Mosley, Toni Morrison, and Alice Walker are among those assayed. Gruesser explores the bonds among this diverse group.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	R34RES0Q6JF1ND	0870137441	406215685	The Lyceum and Public Culture in the Nineteenth-Century United States (Rhetoric & Public Affairs)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Lyceum in forming American popular culture and its interests	The word \\"lyceum\\" is a Latin word with a Greek derivative that was a name for the god of the sun. The association with classical learning and culture and the \\"enlightening\\" the audience of lyceum events would undergo were intentional. The idea of the lyceum in America arose in the early 1800s as a means to provide common knowledge and ideas, or at least some common experiences, for the population of an America that was expanding geographically, changing demographically from large numbers of immigrants, and engaging with the early phases of industrialism and new inventions such as the steamboat. Lyceums throughout the U. S., including frontier areas, were seen by both promoters and audiences as matrixes for unity and communication for the increasingly complex democratic society. In spite of the high-mindedness and vision of their originators, it wasn't long before lyceums were holding circus-like entertainments and other events straying from their intended purposes. But lyceums drew large local audiences wherever they were held, inevitably playing a large part in forming the democratic public culture, much as the universality and eclecticism of television does today. The lyceum--the numerous ones in all parts of the country--is studied not only as representing the diversity and interests of 19th-century America, but also as a central, fundamental ground of rhetoric as \\"that art by which culture and community and character are constituted and transformed.\\" Though \\"lyceum\\" is now an antique word and only traces of the idealism of its originators remain, one recognizes by Ray's historical and social study that the lyceum contributed greatly to the foundation of a unique American culture. This author is a professor in the Department of Communication Studies at Northwestern University.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	R2JS8TW50L6WB5	1844675009	322693353	In Search of Wagner	Books	5	11	17	N	N	new translation of work by influential 20th-century thinker	The European emigre writer Adorno is a major mid 20th century author identified with the Frankfurt School of social criticism. Although this School is usually described as having a Marxist perspective, the social criticism of Adorno is not doctrinaire or propagandistic. Adorno's writings--as this current publication testifies again--have stood the test of time for their acuteness, rigor, and application of first-rate intellectual powers to subjects of the contemporary society. These qualities of Adorno's critical thinking are evident as well in his work \\"In Search of Wagner.\\" In a 20-page introductory foreword, the philosopher/social critic Slavoj Zizek takes up the question \\"Why Is Wagner Worth Saving?\\" Wagner's music, ideas, and biography continue to draw the attention of thinkers in various fields because exploration of these and positions reached regarding them yield insights and assessments on power, anti-Semitism, art, psychology, and politics in the modern world. Written in the late 1930s, \\"In Search of Wagner\\" demonstrates Adorno's innovative, timely, and valuable methodology as it grapples with central questions of modern culture.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	R30WXLQQ2M3FZZ	029920880X	686088057	Erotic Utopia: The Decadent Imagination in Russia's Fin de Siecle	Books	5	6	6	N	N	erotic imagination as means for transforming Russian pre-revolutionary society	In Russia, the responses to the feelings of decadence spread throughout Europe in the fin-de-siecle period of the end of the 19th century manifest \\"utopian, millennial hopes to an extent unknown in Europe.\\" Unconventional, exotic, feverishly imaginative sexual ideas and practices were the locus of such hopes. At the heart of these were emotions and ideas about the desirability and potency of abstinence. However, this was not chastity in the religious sense, but rather a suppressed eroticism which reflected both the sense of futility relating to an apocalyptic outlook and also the anomalous hope of spiritual regeneration and transformation. Matich--professor of Russian literature and culture at the U. of California, Berkeley--lays out the varied symbols, literature, and practices of this peculiar Russian turn relating to perceived decadence in the latter 19th-century political and social disruptions and concomitant anxieties in Russia and parts of Europe. The Russian writers Tolstoy and Alexander Blok and the philosopher Dmitri Merezhovsky and the woman Zinaida Grippius with whom he had a relationship are among those critiqued for bases and variations of this Russian blending of eroticism, spirituality, vision, and politics. Matich has a solid hand on this heretofore obscure vein of Russian fin-de-siecle culture ordinarily dominated by radical political philosophers, social anarchists, and the writer Dostoevsky. The author brings cogency and breadth, and thus allure and longevity, to the subject.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	R55ZJ8GV6TH1L	0932027911	132920899	Douglass and Melville: Anchored Together in Neighborly Style	Books	5	6	7	N	N	shared concerns and similar lives of the two major American figures	The subtitle is taken from Melville's short story \\"Benito Cereno.\\" Although Wallace cannot verify that the two major early 19th-century American figures ever met, he abundantly demonstrates from themes and quotes from their influential writings and activities and associations of theirs that the two men were kindred spirits. A professor of Literature and Language at Northern Kentucky U. and former president of the Melville Society, Wallace found his intuition that Douglass and Melville were connected in significant ways \\"deepened and expanded in multiple ways\\" as he researched and wrote this work. No one can argue with this after reading his work with much visual matter emphasizing the ties between these two important literary and cultural figures. Stories of Melville's and essays of Douglass's deal with individuals at the bottom or margins of society, the cruelties of physical punishment, and also the characteristic perspectives and abilities of individuals treated as less than human. An accessible work for young adults and adults that with its plumbing of comparisons of the works and concerns of Melville and Douglass sheds new light not only on them, but also American society in the years leading up to the Civil War.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	RMRPYUP6ICSXS	0807746150	676382723	The Charter School Dust-up: Examining The Evidence On Enrollment And Achievement	Books	5	5	7	N	N	informative study on charter schools	Copious, detailed statistics and related material represented in the book's many tables finds that despite the claims of charter schools' advocates and some success stories, there is no meaningful difference between charter schools and public schools. \\"[C]harter schools are not, and likely will not be, able to play a large role in reforming public education as a whole.\\" The four authors are all academics in the overlapping areas of economics and education belonging to the Institute publishing this timely study that is associated with Teachers College, Columbia U. The Bush Administration's program \\"No Child Left Behind\\" is scrutinized in one chapter in light of the findings recorded here. Recommendations for more relevant standards for measuring and judging the performance of students and schools are put forth as well mostly in appendices. An up-to-date, sound, and with respect to some central education questions, definitive report for educators, administrators, and policy makers.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	R37LTST4BA33ND	1883658470	566276007	Anthracite Lads: A True Story of the Fabled Molly Maguires	Books	4	8	10	N	N	exposure of framing of Irish in labor activities in late 1800s	Reexamining contemporaneous documents, studying ones which have come to light later, and talking to surviving individuals, author-lawyer Burke puts together a strong argument that the Molly Maguires acquired their notorious reputation as an anarchic, murderous gang as a result of underhanded scheming by individuals associated with the Pinkerton detective agency, including its legendary founder Allan Pinkerton who gained fame in the Civil War. Burke uncovers and analyzes documents which call into question statements and testimony given by such persons that at the time were used to convict and execute by hanging twenty local Irishmen. Burke, an Irishman from the Pennsylvania region where the violent labor strife of the latter 1800s occurred with ancestors who were miners, writes an absorbing account that will alter any reader's perspective on this historical episode of an early U.S. labor conflict involving the different players of the Irish laborers, mine owners, local residents, and government agencies. He tells his story rooted in his methodical research in a mostly novelistic style bringing central characters to life and attributing actions and quotes recorded in documents of inferred from them.	2005-08-03
US	53067931	RBY70K837QQUV	1574554433	660329216	National Directory for Catechesis	Books	5	12	14	N	N	grounds of and handbook for Catholic tteaching	A term, concept, calling, and duty from the early days of Christianity, \\"catechesis\\" (related to catechism) is the part of Catholicism concerned with \\"education in the faith of children, young people, and adults which includes especially the teaching of Christian doctrine imparted...in an organic and systematic way, with a view to initiating the hearers into the fullness of Christian life.\\" The Second Vatican Council called for a renewal of catechesis in 1971. The \\"Directory\\" provides guidance for this catechesis that is a central part of the Church's activity and aims at all times in all situations with all persons. Mostly for Catholic bishops and priests, the \\"Directory\\" nonetheless does have particular sections for lay persons; and its general material on Catholic ideals and theological principles, organizations and procedures, and texts and other resources apply to anyone interested in catechesis, the lifeblood of Catholicism.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R2D4DAVK21RMYB	1844670236	580941271	Portents of the Real: A Primer for Post-9/11 America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	how America is dealing with its fears	Willis has an exceptionally sharp eye for how the fears of Americans churned up by 9/11 are glossed over or disguised and thus mollified by elaborate symbolisms, specious hopes and optimism, and other exercises in delusion and denial. She not only has a sharp eye, but also ranges widely over popular culture for examples of this. Any reader will run across new instances of errant patriotism, infantile trust, political ignorance, and rational concerns mutated into mythic horrors. And for the generally familiar instances such as the Washington D. C. sniper murders and the anthrax scares, the author brings out new facets of these. Willis discloses what the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse reveals about aspects of American society; and sees the values (e. g., the exclusionary social ideal of the white Protestant male) and activities of the Ku Klux Klan mirrored in the posturing, mores, and policies of the Bush White House. Surely controversial, but Willis's critique raises issues the country will have to deal with positively if it is to have a role of world leadership and stop the disintegration of the domestic social fabric.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	RYM8BEM7BNZDQ	0297846086	739378771	ZHUKOV: THE CONQUEROR OF BERLIN (GREAT COMMANDERS) [Hardcover]	Books	5	0	0	N	N	crucial role of Zhukov in Russia military	The biography gives a full picture of the military career of Zhukov, Russian's greatest general who led the Soviet forces defeating the German Army at Stalingrad. But Zhukov's claim to historical importance goes beyond this. He played a key role in defeating the Japanese in their invasion of Manchuria, which freed Russian forces for the later encounter with the Germans along the whole border of eastern Russia. Zhukov prevented the Germans from taking Leningrad and Moscow before turning them back with victory at Stalingrad. After this, it was Zhukov who was given orders by Stalin to take Berlin. Colvin's biography concentrates on the Soviet general's strategic planning and the the outcomes of this, including the abortive Operation Mars which is a puzzling and destructive anomaly in Zhukov's otherwise highly capable, occasionally brilliant, and undeniably critical role in Russia's defeat of the Germans in World War II. Zhukov's independence from Stalin while also being his favorite is a vein of the biography. That Zhukov managed to survive Stalin's murderous purges of top Red Army officers testifies to Stalin's recognition of Zhukov's irreplaceable military abilities. This work follows an earlier one by Colvin titled \\"Nomonhan\\" on the Russo-Japanese War preceding WWII in which Zhukov's decisive part is covered extensively.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R3UAMO1CQM4YL7	1882986210	770958438	Menke: The Complete Yiddish Poems of Menke Katz	Books	5	11	11	N	N	complete work of modern Yiddish poet	Two of the people who knew Menke Katz (1906-1991) best write introductory essays to the hundreds of pages of collected poems--the poet's son and his long-time publishers. Dovid Katz's biographical and literary introduction is over 100 pages. In Harry Smith's seven-page Preface, he notes that Menke Katz's poems \\"spanned the alleys of Michaleshik [in Katz's homeland of Lithuania] and the streets of New York--folklore and factories, the Hill of Svir and skyscraper, the Kabbalah's mysticism and the Talmud's reaching, against the horrors and wonders of the 20th century.\\" Katz was a lifelong refugee, not only from the mid 20th-century troubles of Europe in which Jews bore the brunt, but also from many of the trends and conventions of modernism. Although Katz's poems are unmistakably modernist, they maintain a pronounced singular touch. Because he was a freethinker who would, for example, begin experimenting in his late poems, Katz cannot be pigeonholed with any school, style, or group; although he was a friend or associate of many writers and artists who were. The restlessness, ambivalences, yearnings, and disappointments of this status of being an outsider of history and nationalities surface in the poems--e. g., \\"In my alleys--the gray houses/clamor for light/Like blind crows with shorn wings...\\" [from Night in Downtown}; \\"Lest you cry recall/That a stray spark of light goes out somewhere/Lully-lully-lullaby, my orphan,/Lully-lullaby.\\" [from \\"A Kind of a Lullaby] The course of Katz's long poetic career embraces the horrors, sadnesses, and hopes of the 20th century, the pains and perspectives of the Jewish emigre crystallizing those of multitudes of moderns in the conflicts and the rush of the 20th century, and the particular wisdom, wit, and expression of Yiddish culture. Comprehension and appreciation of 20th-century Jewish and Yiddish literature, and of poetry in particular, without familiarity with Menke Katz's poetry is incomplete.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R7RIX7EBSS41T	0297846140	107606271	The Little Field Marshal: A Life of Sir John French	Books	5	3	3	N	N	reevaluation of reputation of high British officer	Field Marshall John French got a poor reputation in his own day when British troops he commanded were slaughtered in the first two hours of the World WAr I battle of Loos. His controversial term as Viceroy in Ireland during the time of the \\"Troubles\\" there did nothing to improve his reputation. Scandals in his personal life involving a series of mistresses, including the wife of a fellow officer, only further tarnished his name. Holmes does not find any grounds for elevating French's reputation. What he does is add a new dimension to this historical character by relating French's torments over the large number of deaths resulting from his leadership in the First World War along with the general carnage of the War. These concerns that dogged French are found mostly in his private papers, creating discordance between his public image as an unfeeling military leader and his private reflections. Holmes concludes that \\"in many respects, [French] never transcended the nineteenth century.\\" By temperament, training, class, and expectations of himself and his peers, French was unable to effectively come to grips with either military or political problems of the early 20th century.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R1A27F7SD45XUO	0820326577	11748988	Civil War Time: Temporality & Identity In America, 1861-1865	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Civil War's effects on time in lives of Americans	There have been numerous books on how American society was changed by the Civil War. But Wells' is the only one to hone in on how Americans' sense of time was changed, and the effects this had on many areas of society and how modernity developed in America. Basically, the sense of time changed from one that was attuned to nature and religion to one that was related to time as experienced on the battlefield or in relation to battles. \\"The war years introduced a new complicated time to the American people, as events on the battlefield impinged on, overrode, and rearranged antebellum schedules...A convoluted mixture of God's time, natural times, personal times, and clock times, battle time was a ruling time that created a temporal web within which soldiers fought.\\" Not only soldiers in battle developed a different sense of time, but so did nurses in hospitals, for instance, as they waited for casualities to start coming in and when they did, engaged in intense efforts to treat their wounds in a time determined by events on the battlefield. The workplace freed blacks tried to enter in the post-War decades and the habits, skills, discipline, etc., required in it were formed largely by the new sense of time engendered in the masses of men who served as soldiers in the conflict. All of the soldiers' activities, from camp life to furloughs, was pervaded by recently-fought or coming battles. The pre-War sense of time that was esentially personal gave way to a sense of time that was both remote and more controlling, and in some ways more fateful. A fascinating study which brings to light much about American history, society, and culture since the Civil War by an assistant professor of history at the U. of Wyoming.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	RB3JLV12EOEUX	097412401X	248607954	Innocent Targets: When Terrorism Comes to School	Books	5	18	20	N	N	dealing with potential terrorism at schools	Michael Dorn is an internationally-recognized expert of school safety and anti-terrorist measures who has worked with government agencies, foreign law-enforcement departments, among other organizations. He is also associated with the leading defense and intelligence agency Jane's. After analyzing a few notorious incidents from around the world where terrorists took school children hostage for the reasons for the success or failure of government authorities in dealing with them, Dorn--with his co-author his son, also a recognized authority by government agencies and the media--discusses general principles which can prevent a terrorist incident, be prepared for one if it does occur, and if so minimize the number of school children and teachers taken hostage and the potential loss of life. The timely, authoritative manual addresses the natural concern over the safety of children with a realistic perspective on the probability of a terrorist attack on any particular school. The recommendations put forward follow the guideline of being pertinent and responsible without being excessively costly to school systems and governments at different levels.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R1647UZX3RFGI6	026204224X	210926490	Visual Culture: The Study of the Visual after the Cultural Turn (MIT Press)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	issues and challenges in defining and teaching visual studies	Everyone recognizes that this is a time of visual culture, extraordinarily and in many ways excessively so. The phrase is routinely, and casually, used by many in the media, arts, and even academia. However, there is little comprehension, understanding, or agreement on what this visual culture really is either in terms of a concept or an experience. Dikovitsky steps back from this common use of the term visual culture to try to define and comprehend it by exploring \\"the history, theoretical frameworks, methodology, and pedagogy of visual culture in the United States.\\" She does this mostly by interviews with college professors in fields ranging from art, film studies, and cultural studies to literature which in one way or another take into account the pronounced and often dominating or suppressive nature of the visual in modern culture. The word \\"study\\" in the subtitle connotes not so much Dikovitskaya's study of visual culture--although this is inevitably inherent--as it does the author's chosen task to report how visual culture is being studied mostly in the universities; and along with this answer the question of how it is to be studied so it is understood properly. Without a proper understanding of visual culture, contemporary society cannot be understood properly; contemporary society is a mystery. While not defining visual culture definitively, if this can ever be done, Dikovitskaya's exploration, framing of issues, and probing interviews bring the sprawling, elusive, omnipresent presence and idea of visual culture into clearer focus. Dikovitskaya is a research fellow at the Library of Congress.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R34OKC721AHI12	0820327093	136650959	Eugene O'Neill's Last Plays: Separating Art from Autobiography	Books	5	4	4	N	N	the last phase of O'Neill's creative life	In comparing the \\"facts of the plays with the documentary evidence of the historical record, [this work] offers what is really a first study in biography based on knowledge of what in a work are the fact's of [O'Neill's] life and what are not.\\" As psychologically incisive and true-to-life as O'Neill's last plays were, with their richly-drawn, identifiable, flawed, characters, they were particularly susceptible to biographical interpretations and such points of view by critics and even scholars. Among the mixed biographical and literary topics concerning this major American playwright Alexander brings clarity to from poring over material lately uncovered and rereadings of some known material are O'Neill's suicide attempt, his illness of tuberculosis, and his relationship with his parents. Alexander, professor emerita of English at CUNY, gives only passing conjecture on why such \\"myths\\" arose in the first place or persisted on the basis of nonexistent, scant, or clearly contradictory evidence. The reasons for such errors or misguided interpretations of O'Neill's late plays--no doubt growing out of an awe and mystique surrounding O'Neill as a deeply impressive, preternaturally gifted playwright--is an absorbing topic on its own--but beyond the interest or scope of Alexander here. The author focuses on how such errors came to be, and on clearing them up. In this, she brings much clarity, and sometimes definitiveness, to mistakenly held views and some outright fictions of both O'Neill's life and his late plays, all without lowering this playwright's stature.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R1JXAJHNKM9RIP	0738537667	789882717	Bridgeport   (CT)  (Postcard History Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	album of old postcards on the Connecticut city	Bridgeport native Pehanick shows close to 200 postcards of the Connecticut city (from his collection of about 3,000) from the years 1900 to 1940. During these years, Bridgeport was a bustling city with businesses of all kinds and a vacation destination for the well-to-do from New York City and nearby areas. The postcards show the factories, restaurants, mansions, shopping districts, amusements, and parks and seasides which made Bridgeport an outstanding regional city during the early decades of the 1900s. Bridgeport's P. T. Barnum and the famous Pleasure Beach amusement park are also included in the period postcards. Pehanick's postcard collection shows buildings and scenes that are now gone; and it can be used as a guide for the enjoyable pastime of comparing locations then and now.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R1N10ROA8IW3SE	0816643032	4578049	Architecture and Suburbia: From English Villa to American Dream House, 1690-2000	Books	5	5	6	N	N	beginnings of suburbia	Archer puts suburbia into historical context, going back to before it was even known as this. Its beginnings were in the \\"nascent bourgeoisie...philosophical, economic, and political circumstances\\" of late seventeenth century England. Especially, the \\"new architectural type [of] the compact bourgeois villa\\" came to be seen as an ideal residence by the nascent bourgeois public. This architecture type allowed for a \\"new settlement pattern\\" different from the traditional ones of dense urban development and sprawling manors--namely, suburbia with its homes surrounded by lawns clustered in country-like areas. Along with laying out the cultural and philosophical origins of suburbia, including the developing concept of the self, Archer presents both sides of the assessment of suburbia. In modern-day America, where the majority of the population now live in suburbia, there has for many decades been an ongoing debate over whether suburbia is the acme of the American dream of prosperity and upward mobility or an illusion entailing the stifling of individuality and cultivation of materialism. Archer's book is substantive enough to be a text in college courses on suburban studies, while also being accessible and engaging enough as a timely work of cultural studies for the general reader. The author is a professor of cultural studies and comparative literature at the U. of Minnesota. With material ranging from Enlightenment English philosophy to portrayals of suburbia in recent movies, from architectural plans of the \\"compact bourgeois villa\\" to inventions such as lawnmowers and economic changes such as new banking practices associated with suburbia, the work demonstrates how fertile this subject is while bringing it into focus and drawing the avenues for further exploration of it.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R2VVHSBI1ML320	1903470277	110002356	Jean Helion	Books	5	7	7	N	N	gallery of art works plus critical essays	The titles of the four introductory essays display the many aspects of this modern French artist--Helion: The Art of Declaration; Helion: The World As Prose; Helion and British Art, 1933-1937; and Jean Helion's American Connections. The careers of most artists whose art displayed such different aspects and such breadth, as well as changes in genres and subjects, would be described as \\"checkered\\" or \\"interesting.\\" But Helion is not simply categorized as this. Despite such heterogeneity over the decades of his work from the 1920s to the 1980s, Helion manifestly surpasses such labelings. For the abstract works with a constructivist accent thru the still lifes and figures of his latter decades, Helion's work evidences a consistent boldness; not only in coloration, but also composition and assorted inner forms. About 125 pages of color pictures of paintings divided into mostly subject and a couple of stylistic categories illustrate this notable modern painter's range of subjects and movement regarding styles. The chronology of more than 20 pages of smaller type with many photographic insets is virtually a compendious biography of Helion. The five-page bibliography of the same smaller type contains hundreds of entries. In short, this work is the present major publication on Jean Helion; and with its high quality of production and design and its encompassing content, will probably stand for a long time as the major introduction and reference on Helion.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R2KZI609WWYLHA	0972538437	709704423	Grandmother Says	Books	5	1	1	N	N	humorous, fetching poems	Each of the 84 poems begins with the word \\"Grandmother\\" in bold type on the top line as if the title; this is followed by verbs such as lets, trots, gives, sits, hears, teaches, sings, knows which set the tone for the respective poem. Then in a tone sometimes cranky, sometimes mischievous, sometimes empathetic, sometimes humbled--but never arrogant, supercilious, or preachy--the character Grandmother spins out an observation or remarks containing her wisdom gained from decades of involvement in relationships of all kinds and nearby nature. With Grandmother's unpredictable, idiosyncratic, yet unfailingly discerning appearances in the varied situations, she is like the trickster figure of Native American folk lore. She is pictured on the cover dressed something like a old Eskimo woman with hands on hips yelling out something. Whitney, with previously published books of poetry, lives in Wisconsin and teaches writing in Wisconsin colleges.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R1SGF75M7SJPAN	1592287050	476132987	That Might Be Useful: Exploring America's Secondhand Culture	Books	5	15	15	N	N	a look at the antiques and used-goods trade	Leslie takes the reader on an enjoyable and instructive journey through the world of flea markets, tag sales, auctions, antique shops, and other outlets where used and antique items of all ages and price levels exchange hands. Not having much money as well as prompted by the desire to shirk the \\"rampant materialism\\" he found in large chain stores, malls, and mainstream retailing, Leslie made the decision to buy only secondhand goods when he needed something despite the extra time this often required, with no guarantee that he would ever find what he was looking for. But before long, these drawbacks were put out of mind as the author became ever more involved in, and fascinated and delighted by what he found in this supposedly marginal, but thriving and populous area of American society. \\"In the secondhand culture, I have discovered the joys of a genuine American market, unfettered buying and selling, which most first-level retailing has lost.\\" Leslie has become friends with many dealers he has met. The author's ventures into all aspects of this secondhand culture from major international auction houses, regional and local auctions and flea markets, neighborhood tag sales, and also the world's largest and longest flea markets also serve as a guide for anyone wishing to become more involved in this market as either a buyer or seller. Leslie teaches at Siena College in upper New York, which also happens to be a prime area for the secondhand market he was drawn to and colorfully and fully recounts.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R1LJTGBH70H21N	0297846167	510607583	The Making of a Legionnaire: My Life in the French Foreign Legion Parachute Regiment	Books	5	8	8	N	N	first-person account of training for French Foreign Legion	The Englishman Parris recounts his basic training in becoming a French Foreign Legionnaire with a \\"you-are-there\\" detail and liveliness; in places down to the cot he slept on and the food he ate, but also the weapons he learned to use and the tactical lessons he and the other recruits were taught. Like most other Legionnaires, Parris joined from a deep sense of disappointment after certain difficult experiences in his life; although he left the Legion after a few years and is now living in England married with children. The challenging training takes place in environments as varied as French Guyana, North Africa desert, and hills of Corsica, with Parris and his fellow recruits having to master different skills and succeed at different objectives in each. Parris gives an indelible inside look at the rigorous training Legionnaires undergo.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	RLJRL89OE91G7	0814630340	108382728	Oasis of Wisdom: The Worlds of the Desert Fathers and Mothers	Books	5	10	10	N	N	early Christian asceticism and its lessons for today	Keller draws different types of early Christian monasticism while also laying out the broader grounds of what was common among them. All were pathways to God. In the early days of Christianity, the ascetic habits and spiritual practices and thoughts of a small number of men and women going out to desert areas in Egypt and neighboring areas helped not only to preserve the germ of Christianity against the barbarian invasions of Europe, but also to found a model for spiritual life and cast of mind of devout Christian believers for all ages. Keller is a clergyman who leads retreats and at one time headed a religious center. This learned overview of early Christian monasticism and asceticism is mainly a series of biographical portraits of several notable holy men and women with attention to principles in their lives (e. g., silence, praxis) which can be cultivated in anyone's life for greater spirituality and to spiritual thoughts of theirs which can be readily apprehended and reflected on by anyone. The author succeeds in his twin aims of highlighting the lives and spirituality of the extraordinary holy men and women and answering the question he poses, \\"What is the significance of their experience and wisdom for our lives today?\\"	2005-07-06
US	53067931	RRC3L5BRFLK3T	1572333553	592914985	James Agee Rediscovered: The Journals for 'Let Us Now Praise Famous Men' and Other New Manuscripts	Books	5	4	4	N	N	background of Agee's writings seen in his journals	Drafts and fragments of James Agee's eclectic writings from the 1930s to near the end of his life in the 1950s--from the Depression to post-War United States--offer incomparable access to his eye which was the source for this writings, his note-taking habits, and the self-editing he engaged in. Such self-editing by Agee, or any other writer, not only evidences the concern with grammar and clarity of expression, but also with the author's moral sense, impulses, instinct for communication, and philosophy. The writings, many with print markings resembling or symbolizing changes made by Agee, are journal entries and drafts of poems, novels, essays, and writings such as scripts or treatments Agee did for Hollywood. Sixteen previously unpublished photographs by Walker Evans, including some of Agee, are also found in the volume; thus once again linking this famous photographer and author who together did the unforgettable portrayal of the Depression, \\"Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.\\"	2005-07-06
US	53067931	RLZHACXN882VN	0896725545	225679223	White Justice in Arizona: Apache Murder Trials in the Nineteenth Century	Books	5	2	2	N	N	analysis of stacked cases against Apaches in the Southwest	Murder cases against Apache Indians in the territory of Arizona in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century are recounted much as cases against blacks in the South have been done in other books and media. McKanna goes beyond the by-now familiar charge that the Apaches, as a minority ethnic group in lands taken over by white settlers, got no justice to speak of. His main concern is how the system worked against the defendants, even when circumstances and in some cases physical evidence raised questions about the murder charges. The author also views the acts of the Native Americans against the backdrop of ill-defined laws and jurisdiction in the recently-formed territory and age-old Apache culture, which was undergoing a combination of forced and voluntary transition. McKanna's accounts are like popular case-book studies of the cases against the Indians with a sociological factor brought in. He teaches American Indian history at San Diego State U. and has written previous books on the inter-related subjects of crime and race.	2005-07-06
US	53067931	R5ZJ6WOJHQHDV	1931236453	891574246	Prime Time Apparitions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	multifaceted, revealing poems of contemporary life	Linmark's poems are lively, often comical depictions of the eclectic elements and multiple possible directions of contemporary life. With the Philippines, Hawaii, and San Francisco in his background, he effortlessly, sometimes profligately, conjures up the diverse parts of circumstances. While these are paradoxical or overwhelming for many, with Linmark, they are bound by his energy and brightness. In some cases, they are bound by his empathy too, as when he assumes a different character and sometimes the other gender. As references to Kierkegaard and a few poems which reach out to a higher power suggest, the eclectic, unpredictable objects and thoughts of the poems are not distractions, but rather are often occasions for a different, nontraditional, manner of reflection or meditation.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R3CNVYA1UGCHWB	0816643024	394950874	Shooting from the Hip: Photography, Masculinity, and Postwar America	Books	5	3	3	N	N	identity and image of American men after WWII	With the close of World War II, the paradigmatic masculine, myth-like image of the soldier could no longer be sustained. Returning to the domestic society with their memories of the realities of war, as well as knowledge of their own fears, conflicts, and roles in the carnage, the legions of men also returned to a society which had worked admirably without them in maintaining order, demonstrating patriotism, and producing prodigious amounts of war supplies and consumer goods. The patriarchal \\"fictions\\" about men were in shambles. This work \\"explores the way photography functioned within the postwar restructuring of the dominant fiction.\\" Photography accomplished this by presenting images of men which reestablished them at the head of the social structure in roles that were desirable and beneficial. No longer seen by themselves or those who remained on the \\"home front,\\" especially women, as saving the society, the men came to be seen by themselves and women in respectable and romantic ways reflecting American ideals of individual worth and ability, mastery of one's own situation and destiny, and autonomy. The five main types of images were \\"breadwinner, warrior, tough guy, playboy, and rebel.\\" Vettel-Becker, professor of art history at Montana State U.-Billings, writes a cultural study of how each of these was created by media photography, and each image's part in making male ego whole and restoring male superiority in postwar American society. One chapter, \\"Female Body,\\" showing a few photos of naked women, looks at how the eroticized image of women worked so men could regain the position they had lost due to the \\"historical trauma\\" they suffered from World War II.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R2CLV582DRQARJ	0873515218	637652059	Women of the Northern Plains: Gender and Settlement on the Homestead Frontier	Books	5	6	7	N	N	lives and legacy of pioneer women	\\"North Dakota pioneer women accepted what they had first seen as 'nothing,' made it into something they recognized, and claimed it as their own.\\" Handy-Marchello writes about the varied ways the pioneer women claimed the empty and daunting frontier. Both immigrant women and \\"Yankee\\" women migrating from eastern parts of the U. S. accomplished this by joining the men in practically any work that had to be done. But in addition, it was primarily the women who looked to education and health care for children, the development of community by establishing civic and religious organizations, and all kinds of personal and public commitments making for a lasting society which could be handed down to future generations. At the time the northern plains, particularly the area of the state of North Dakota, was being settled, the Indians had been mostly pacified and farm machinery and electricity were changing the work of farming. Nonetheless, the settlement of one of the last western frontiers called for all the determination, enterprise, imagination, and hope from the women as settlement in any other time or area. Handy-Marchello, a history professor at the U. of North Dakota, gives equal treatment to both the physical challenges (e. g., the weather, making fields for crops) and how these were faced and also the indefatigable pioneer spirit of the varied women. And in the course of doing this, the author notes how the pioneer women's spirit and contributions continue to shape the regional society.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R35OF3QPYRBY9K	0974199249	729115574	Ocean Whisper	Books	4	0	0	N	N	boy dreams about being a whale in the ocean	A series of pictures is introduced by a 12-line poem \\"Ocean Whisper.\\" The poem relates a young boy's dream that he is a whale cavorting with other whales in the ocean. The pictures are scenes from his dream. Dennis Rockhill, the illustrator, uses an artistic technique involving sketching and multiple layers of the scenes to create illustrations that capture the similar undersea world and world of a dream. A picture of whales and a fishbowl the young boy looks at in his bedroom as he is trying to fall asleep spur his dream. Ages 3-6.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R257NIOB6NTIG9	087351517X	348724416	Swinging for the Fences: Black Baseball in Minnesota	Books	5	0	0	N	N	black baseball stars and teams in Minnesota	Twenty-three articles by a variety of authors, mostly college professors and journalists, cover the different facets of black baseball in Minnesota from its first days in the latter 1800s down to contemporary times. The general theme running through all of the diversified articles is the \\"America Dream\\" and the \\"American Tragedy\\" reflected in the histories of the teams and the careers and lives of individual players. The American Dream part of the theme deals with how playing baseball allowed players to strive for high personal achievement as well as enjoy various levels of economic security and social recognition. The American Tragedy part takes in not only the racism and discrimination players faced, but also personal troubles and disappointments of some of them. Satchel Paige, Jackie Robinson, and Willie Mays appear along with many relative unknowns. The exploits of teams named the Fergus Falls Musculars, the Quicksteps, and the Brown Stockings, among others, are related. The vibrant Minnesota black baseball scene going back well over a century is treated in a popular style profiling great and other notable players and following the courses, and occasional dramatic moments, of the teams.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	RHV0KQ0L47A6O	029598502X	624130463	Made in Japan: The Postwar Creative Print Movement	Books	5	9	9	N	N	new art movement in post-War Japanese society	In the rebuilding of Japanese society in the years after its defeat in World War, there was a \\"creative print movement [that] brought modern European artistic attitudes such as self-expression and formalist innovation to the Japanese woodblock print, a medium that had been rooted in the mass-production of popular images for several hundred years.\\" The latest stages of this movement are becoming more widely known in the United States with the popularity of the Japanese manga and anime. The predecessors of this recent Japanese art are seen in the colors, designs, collages, subjects, and treatments of the post-war prints in this volume. One or two prints of 59 artists are shown in the main section of about 70 pages. These range from dark, tangled visions from having witnessed the devastation from the atom bombs to abstract designs to brightly-colored, comically erotic figures. Biographical sketches of the 59 artists follow the main section.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R137BWECS6TFUK	1570915105	901707147	Bach's Goldberg Variations	Books	5	13	15	N	N	lessons in Bach and Baroque music	The legendary-like story behind Bach's immortal \\"Goldberg Variations\\" is told accompanied with fancy, often baroque-like illustrations with golden touches. The musically-talented orphan Johann Gottlieb Goldberg was taken in by a German Count. The Count directs him to play something new for him each week; and then later calls on him to do a \\"piece filled with dances and difficult runs...canons and something quite new...[and] a surprise that will trick me.\\" To meet this demanding challenge, Johann has to turn to his mentor Bach, whose composition in answer to the Count's demand later came to be named after the orphan. The orphan Johann remains the focus of the tale, with Bach giving him musical information and guidance so that readers learn something about the technicalities and style of the \\"Goldberg Variations.\\" Ages 4-7.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	RP6J4VY6B86RP	1568091036	198357654	Looking for God's Country	Books	5	1	1	N	N	memories and lessons of much-traveled poet	The past often turns up in Krapf's poems, but not in a nostalgic way. The poet does not nostalgically pine for or color the past because it is so lively in his memory anyway. That a \\"shopping mall and a big/black parking lot\\" have replaced the packed-dirt basketball court of the poet's youth is not cause for sorrow or regret because when he sees this, the poet hears in his mind \\"that leather swish/inside a cord net like the sound/of an angel landing in heaven.\\" [from \\"Barnyard Hoops\\"] The poet has memories which nothing can take away from him. But these do not pale the immediate or remove the poet from it. Rather, they give fullness and a wide emotional expanse to the present; as when in \\"Going to Church\\" two elderly widowers smile and move with a grace that \\"says ladies they love/are going to church, too.\\" Throughout his life, Krapf has retained his connection to his German ancestry in various ways. This is seen in this volume with black-and-white photographs by the German photographer Andreas Riedel at the beginning of each of the four sections.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R2K1NMQW0ZNPL5	0820327344	997489767	Zoro's Field: My Life in the Appalachian Woods	Books	5	8	8	N	N	living with nature in Appalachian region	The local legend and mountain sage of the Appalachians of western North Carolina Zoro Guice told the author, \\"If a man goes out in the woods and just sits down in one place for long enough, all of nature and everything he needs to know will eventually pass before him like a parade.\\" And so Crowe--poet, publisher, and recording artist--took up residence in the Appalachians for four years, and writes about the \\"parade.\\" As in Thoreau's \\"Walden,\\" Crowe writes about how he subsisted in the wild and what he learned from this. But moving somewhat beyond \\"Walden\\" in content and form, Crowe writes more about what goes on beyond himself; and some passages are in the form of verse. Not so meticulous or contained as \\"Walden,\\" \\"Zoro's Field\\" reflects on modernity's effects on the tie with nature, environmental concerns, and changes which have come to the area. Though different in ways from Thoreau's classic which it cannot help but be compared with, Crowe's work in this same genre holds its own as an engaging, thought-inducing memoir.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R3ACI0NGKWULKN	1570915229	68631258	Amelia to Zora: Twenty-Six Women Who Changed the World	Books	5	21	24	N	N	brief portraits of influential, memorable women	There's the familiar, expected, notable women--the flier Amelia Earhart, the black author Zora Neale Hurston, the artist Frida Kahlo, the philanthropist Eleanor Roosevelt. But there's also a number of accomplished lesser-known women and ones who have achieved recognition in recent years who are not yet seen as regulars in the circle of historically significant women. Thus, one finds the architect Maya Lin and the figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi. Outstanding women from diverse ethnic backgrounds and active in diverse fields, from labor unions to science to entertainment, are included in the twenty-six for each letter of the alphabet. Each woman is pictured in a collage-like illustration with objects representing what she is recognized for.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R3M9EOK1X5EVC1	0262033283	291746161	At a Distance: Precursors to Art and Activism on the Internet (Leonardo Book Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	predecessors for Internet communication and activist art	\\"The cultural convergence of art, science, and technology provides ample opportunity to challenge the very notion of how art is produced and to call into question its subject matter and its function in society...Envisoned as a catalyst for enterprise, research, and creative and scholarly experimentation, the [Leonard] book series enables diverse intellectual communities to explore common grounds of expertise.\\" The 20 collected articles by professors, artists, curators, and writers in this book in the Leonard series from MIT press fulfill this purpose. The global communications network for organizing and reporting the demonstrations against the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in 1999, email art, computer-created and disseminated music, and telecommunication are among the subjects examined in exploring the new forms of art and activism with the erosion of the lines between art, communication, technology, and computer science in contemporary culture. The international group of artists known as Fluxus, which celebrated its fortieth anniversary in 2002, is but one activist group whose aim is the \\"elimination of art as a special activity.\\" The essays offer new, out-of-the-box, perspectives on different much-publicized events (such as the Seattle demonstrations) and report on representative and influential groups, activities, and individuals that are little known by general readers. The essays as a whole give an unrivaled, panoramic view of what is going on in the broad, modern-day field which has come to be known as the media. As much perspective as possible on this widely diversified, extraordinarily, almost preternaturally, vibrant, and continually evolving field is given in showing the sources and precedents of the ideas and activities. Some of these sources and precedents are surprising and intriguing. But this is what one expects from this collection of essays working toward a new, relevant way of seeing the world being shaped by the new media and technology.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R1YWMQSD0NN6TT	0972497331	966693275	Tito The Firefighter:Tito El B	Books	4	0	0	N	N	young boy learns about work of firefighters	The text is not in the two languages of English and Spanish, but rather the bilingual eight-year-old Tito uses some Spanish words in telling his story. Passing in front of a firehouse in Spanish Harlem, Tito sees a man gesturing excitedly and speaking Spanish to one of the fireman. Tito interprets what the man is saying: he saw coming from a window. Then Tito goes with the firemen in their truck to investigate. It's only a pot of rice smoldering when it was left on a stove by a woman when she fell asleep in her apartment. But the incident gives Tito the chance to learn what firemen are like and see how they react to a fire. Tim Hoppey, the author of this simple children's tale, is himself a fireman, who was involved in the 9/11 rescue efforts. Ages 3-6.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R25Q77ZF8EE6O9	1885008279	211064520	The Prince's Diary	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cinderella story from the young Prince's side	The Prince is the character from the Cinderella tale, retelling this classic from an unusual perspective. On the date June 19 in his diary, the Prince writes, \\"I saw Cinderella again today! I was out inspecting a section of broken fence when she came into view...carrying a basket of wet clothes that she hung out to dry.\\" The story follows the traditional story line, but seems fresh and embellished in being told once again from this novel perspective.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	R1CX5CUJB6AD6M	0826335195	472298787	Women in the Crucible of Conquest: The Gendered Genesis of Spanish American Society, 1500-1600 (Dilogos Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	social changes for women after Spanish conquest in New World	The Spanish conquest of the southern hemisphere of the New World disrupted the \\"gender parallelism and gender complementarity\\" in the Native American societies. Associate professor of Latin American history at Arizona State U.-Tempe, Powers describes and analyzes how native women of all classes, tribes, and varied capabilities and ingenuity adapted to the patriarchal culture imposed on them by the Spanish conquerors. Virtually all of the women were forced into certain positions resulting in a \\"demotion in status.\\" Marriage, slavery, employment, and prostitution were among these. But in many cases--Powers's main topic of interest--women tried to varying degrees of success to keep or regain the equal, respected status they had in their Native American cultures. For example, some women became landowners. And the meztiso children from all types of relations between the women and the Spanish conquerors had a central role in modifying, though not changing the fundamental patriarchal structure, of the society. Powers moves the past couple of decades of feminist-motivated scholarship and development of perspective into this relatively untouched area of the changes the Spanish conquest forced on Native American women in particular.	2005-05-29
US	53067931	RCKOLMXJV7MME	1574556924	710115194	Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Catholic doctrine on wide range of subjects and issues	The \\"concise but complete overview of the Church's social teaching\\" runs some 225 pages. The principles of the many facets of Catholic social work are specified \\"to sustain and foster the activity of Catholics in the social sector, especially the activity of the lay faithful.\\" There's no guidance on the practicalities or pragmatics of realizing the principles; the \\"Compendium\\" is not a how-to. Parts of it are almost theological in tone, e. g., \\"God's Plan and the Mission of the Church.\\" And other parts such as those dealing with the \\"way of love\\" or alluding to the \\"new heaven\\" and the \\"new earth\\" are visionary and inspirational. Half a dozen or more footnotes on every page point to historical or doctrinal bases for the principles; most of which are found in papal encyclicals. The family, peace, human rights, work, and politics are major sections. An \\"Analytical Index\\" of 150 pages takes one to any particular topic one is looking for. The format is each of the numerous social principles in italics followed by brief commentary in regular type. The \\"Compendium\\" is not only a comprehensive new edition gathering Catholic doctrine relating to social work. With recurring references to moral issues raised by advances in medicine, globalization, and other contemporary matters, it carries these principles into today's world and its central social developments.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	RY0DMGRBWELR2	1931896151	395684214	Stomp And Sing	Books	5	0	0	N	N	working-class experiences in first volume of collected poems	This is Andersen's first volume of collected poems, his \\"debut\\" volume. Individual poems have been published in The Pittsburgh Quarterly, Connecticut Review, and the Haight-Ashbury Literary Journal. Poems of Andersen's have also not surprisingly been published in Blue Collar Review and The Progressive. For the poet has stayed in touch with his blue-collar, working-class background. He doesn't write from the stance of the outsider or the rebel, but as one whose status and aspirations are not given by birthright or privilege. He doesn't so much struggle for what he achieves, but rather gains it by cleverness and fortune; as when arriving early to a Pete Seeger concert, he finds \\"all doors chained or locked but one,\\" which one he goes through, and after making his way down \\"dark hallways\\" comes upon the famous singer, who \\"waved me over to sit on a folding chair beside him.\\" [from \\"True Story\\"] By similar combinations of desire, luck, determination, and wit, Andersen regularly achieves such moments. They come about sometimes in nature, sometimes in a city, and sometimes in thinking about his father's life or aspects of the past. These moments are not restorative or epiphanic, as they would be for most poets. Andersen is not a romantic. Nonetheless, he realizes the value of such moments; and he is thankful for them, or else he could not put them so clearly.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R2U7LM167TKBN9	9749575504	41794385	The History and Development of the Shan Scripts	Books	5	2	2	N	N	evolution and survival of this Southeast Asian language	The Shan language is one of those which, like endangered animal species, is in danger of extinction. It is the language of a distinct ethnic group from the middle of Southeast Asia, roughly the northern part of Burma and neighboring part of China. But this group has been dispersed by the currents of history and encroachments of modernity. Mong is a specialist in the history of the Shan people and their language. He follows the development of the Shan language primarily through its manuscripts from the probable origins of the Shan alphabet to the present-day threats to its survival. The language mostly developed naturally, but at times its adherents had to devise strategies to keep it from fading away. Parts of the book are passages, sometimes fairly lengthy ones, in the Shan language, especially where the author analyzes changes in it during different stages of its development. But these passages can be glossed over by the large majority not knowing Shan to nonetheless still comprehend this book on this historically and culturally significant, yet now fragile Southeast Asian language.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R2TJFI106OQHU2	0820326631	18692600	Mastery's End: Travel and Postwar American Poetry	Books	5	2	3	N	N	what poetry reveals about travel in contemporary life	Gray--associate professor of English at Seton Hall--suggests an \\"alternative model\\" to travel--away from its \\"unsavory roots\\" associated with hegemony related to Western imperialism, penetration, and pollution, to travel as divulging vulnerability, incoherence, disorientation, diminution even. Modern and postmodern poets with their exceptional openness, familiarity with the contingencies of identity, and cross-cultural recognition and status are especially attuned to how travel affects one's life and how the modern habit of travel symbolizes essentials of modern life. The poets capture in the words and images of their poems the new, disorienting, etc., qualities of travel. Elizabeth Bishop, Robert Lowell, John Ashbery, and Derek Walcott are looked to individually for what travel signifies in the postcolonial era. The Beat poets are treated as a group. Through Gray's original and revealing readings of poems concerning travel, one learns much about the state of postmodernity.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R1LQDQKNML8FQE	1571312773	46782448	Bird Songs of the Mesozoic: A Day Hiker's Guide to the Nearby Wild (The World As Home)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	engaging writing on nearness of nature in everyday life	Besides professor of literature at the U. of North Carolina-Asheville, author Hope is also a painter, actor, poet, and theater director. He uses his senses, skills, and experiences in all of these in writings on nature. He doesn't go looking for nature by trekking into the wilderness or vacationing to exotic places, for instance. Rather he takes nature where he finds it in the rounds and occasional excursions of his ordinary life. As he has found, \\"nature finds us where we are.\\" In addition to the fetching essays, Hopes wants to impart the lesson that nature is always at hand in some way; and can, and should be, recognized and appreciated on this basis accessible to anyone at any time.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R2UHFAZJ46VEZA	0472115014	992297461	The Last Miles: The Music of Miles Davis, 1980-1991 (Jazz Perspectives)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Miles Davis's music in the last phase of his career	Not a biography, \\"The Last Miles\\" rather concentrates on the music Miles Davis created and recorded in the last decade of his career as one of America's leading jazz musicians. Cole is interested especially in the sources of the music Davis produced in this last period of his prolific and influential career and how each piece was recorded. Such interests are related to Cole's writings as a journalist in the fields of music and technology. The author's keen interest in Davis's place in these fields extends to answering how Davis came up with the titles for each of his recordings. To answer this and other questions, Cole went to musicians who worked with Miles Davis and also the technicians who recorded his pieces. The business of promoting Davis's albums by Columbia and Warner is also covered. A singular look into the last stage of Davis's long, somewhat checkered career gained from varied sources; which at the same time gives a picture of the modern music business.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R223FTBXCOSYF4	1572333154	822222364	Along The Maysville Road: Early Republic Trans-Appalachian West	Books	5	3	3	N	N	early road westward in American history and psyche	What came to be called the Maysville Road was a 65-mile stretch of dirt road from the Ohio River to the Kentucky Bluegrass region that had its beginnings as a buffalo trace. Starting in the 1770s, it carried Euroamerican settlers of all groups and classes to what was at the time America's western frontier. U. S. Highway 68 now follows part of the old Maysville Road; while other stretches have become parts of farms and woodlands. The Road not only played a key part in the beginnings of the United State's westward expansion, but it was also an early symbol of the freedom, opportunities, and new beginnings of the American dream. \\"More than a narrative of regional improvements and national political personalities...[the book] employs the biography of a road...as a microhistory of social and cultural change in the Early American Republic.\\" Friend's narrative history focuses on the main types of individuals, families, and groups migrating to the area along the road in different periods. The first pioneers gave way to gentry from Virginia and other mid-Atlantic states; who in turn gave way to businessmen and immigrants. The blending and compromising among the groups led eventually to the formation and \\"triumph\\" of the middle class. In 1830, Henry Clay proposed a Maysville Road Bill for bringing government-funded improvement to the area; but this was vetoed by President Andrew Jackson. Friend is an associate professor of history at the U. of Central Florida who has written other books on Kentucky and edits the \\"Florida Historical Quarterly.\\"	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R2SUTV8AWHTVGO	0642541795	461459083	No Ordinary Place: The Art of David Malangi	Books	5	0	0	N	N	outstanding Australian aboriginal artist	In the transition to public art, aboriginal art usually becomes stylized to some degree, and sometimes becomes plainly commercialized. The kachina dolls of Southwest American tribes are examples of this; as are the totems of African tribes. But Malangi's Australian aboriginal art has stayed away from this tendency. The reason for this is not only Malangi's deep attachment to the aboriginal art and the culture it grows out of, but also his use of natural pigments and other natural, traditional, materials. Most of his works shown are natural pigments on eucalyptus bark, with others natural pigments on wood, and a couple using feathers as well. The sinuous, complex shapes and vivid, intermixed colors for which Australian aboriginal art has gained worldwide notice are retained practically unaffected in Malangi's art. The many works included are known as recent--from the 1960s to the 1990s--from their lack of wear, but not from any stylization as an influence of or concession to public or commercial art. Introductory essays with photos in the margins give the physical and cultural, anthropological, sources of Malangi's art.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R1BAW899N4U0HC	0934324336	211524926	Art of the Ancestors: Antique North American Indian Art	Books	5	3	3	N	N	high-quality illustrated book on Native American objects	The 100 Native American artifacts are grouped according to the major geographical areas of the Plains and Eastern Woodlands; Northwest Coast and Western Alaska; and Southwest and California. Each section is introduced by an overview of the art and objects of the tribes in the broad areas. Collectors, dealers, and the like will appreciate the full-page color photos in this large-size (13\\" x 12\\") book capturing the details of the jars, masks, blankets, garments, masks, carved objects, kachina dolls, baskets, and other items. The art-book quality along with the exceptional color photos and the informative introductory essays make this an especially attractive and useful introduction or reference for Native American art and cultural objects.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R2HDF2ZEFUNFUV	0874215978	905729694	Poets On Place	Books	4	0	0	N	N	interviews with many poets on role of place in their work	Asking variations on the basic question of what role place has in the poetry of more than 45 contemporary America poets, Pfefferle elicits a rich and revealing variety of responses. Many of the responses angle into the explicit and implicit influences of the region a particular poet is from, such as Florida, the South in general, or New England. Some poets who have moved to one or more different places reflect on changes in impressions and attachments to place. Nikki Giovanni, Peter Cooley, Mark Strand, and Charles Wright are among the poets whose names will be recognized by many. There's snapshots of some of the poets, or a photo of a local scene. And many of the numerous poets supply a poem illustrating what they have to say about the role of place in their work.	2005-05-01
US	53067931	R3VT5MRYSUM32X	3775715835	376620611	Gerhard Richter: Without Color	Books	5	1	3	N	N	study of a vein of major artist's work	While Richter's art works without color may not have received the attention as his other works, they make up about one third of this major contemporary artist's work. \\"The absence of color has become a leitmotif\\" of Richter's career of more than 40 years. The works without color are more than a contrast, like a shadow, alluding to primary works. For Richter, colorlessness has its own status and value. Richter remarks, \\"Gray is the welcome and only possible equivalence for indifference, non-commitment, absence of opinion, absence of shape.\\" About 40 works of different shapes, sizes, and mediums in various shades of light and dark from a smoke-like gray to a dense, pitch, black with occasional flecks or limited hues of color illustrate Richter's regard of gray. One cannot understand Richter's place as one of the foremost contemporary artists nor his intents as an artist without taking into account this \\"motif\\" of his art based on this regard.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	RUKE09DBMYJ15	157432277X	502286368	Modern Fishing Lure Collectibles, Vol. 1: Identification & Value Guide	Books	5	3	3	N	N	reliable collector's guide for fishing lures	The great variety of fishing lures with the differences in their bright markings and sizes can be disarming to even experienced collectors. With his 20 years experience as a collector, Lewis makes sense of this area of collecting by classifying the lures by their makers, and with introductory essays on \\"Dating Techniques\\" and the \\"Modern Era.\\" The chapters with the classifications are more than simple listings of numerous lures. Besides sharp color photos with annotations, these chapters also include information on the manufacture of the respective lures and details of them to look for. Advertising and promotional literature and displays are shown as aids in identifying different lures and understanding their design and features. A serious collector or dealer of lures could not find a better guide than this for what it does cover of this incredibly diverse and constantly changing field.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	R273YLB2C3RD9F	0892073268	834562199	No Limits, Just Edges: Jackson Pollock	Books	5	16	18	N	N	development of Pollock's art style	The German subtitle translates \\"works on papers.\\" The three essays in German discuss the tools, materials, and techniques Pollock used for his art works on paper. The third essay has photographs of pencils, felt-tip pens, and eye droppers this major modern artist used in creating such works. Seventy-eight are pictured in color one per page in chronological order in one gallery-like section of this larger, rectangular-shaped book. Pollock's works are familiar, and need no general commentary. The more-focused, particularly revealing artistic theme of the essays is Pollock's liberty with lines, or edges. As the numerous works on paper show, his progress in this technique and impulse gave him unprecedented freedom and novelty as an artist. One follows the expansion of Pollock's liberty with line and corresponding new dimensions of artistic freedom over the course of this time. Early, roughly representational works and others indicating the probable influence of Miro and de Kooning lead to the more complex, abstract art that is regarded as typifying Pollock. The chronological presentation and analytic essays (in German) allow one to gain a particularly revealing understanding of the artistic achievement of this groundbreaking modern artist. The work is the catalog for an exhibition of these works of Pollock's that was in Germany and is in New York until the Fall 2005.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	R2358C0QMWJY8B	1932360522	299835968	Freaks and Fire: The Underground Reinvention of Circus	Books	5	4	7	N	N	view of "alternative" circuses	J. Dee Hill is a former bureau chief of Adweek writing about \\"radical\\" or \\"alternative\\" circus. This is not your familiar Ringling Brothers Circus, meant mainly to drawn families and entertain and awe children. This radical circus cannot even be compared to a typical, traditional circus. Think the most outrageous performance art you even saw--and then some. The side show has taken center stage. Although some of the costumes and performances resemble the Mardi Gras carnival festivities of Rio de Janiero. Zamora the Torture King, Brothers Grim Sideshows, and Bindlestiff Family Circus are the names of some of the troupes. Hill takes these and a few others one by one with accompanying photos by Hollenbeck to demonstrate the exotic make-up and dress and the startling acts. The book doesn't play up the sensationalistic, sometimes macabre, occasionally repulsive aspects of such circuses--this is evident enough without any emphasis by the author. The book has a sociological and cultural vein too, with performers telling their interesting stories of what drew them to this field of contemporary entertainment and how they got into it.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	R2NKZV386T4BY2	1597140074	510562525	AutoBioDiversity: True Stories from ZYZZYVA	Books	5	1	1	N	N	engaging, lively multicultural first-person stories	The 27 true-life, memoir-styled stories delight again and again. Noted editor Junker of his acclaimed literary periodical ZYZZYVA has no agenda other than fresh, high-quality writing. As the title of the anthology of selections from the periodical connotes, the pieces reflect the contemporary multicultural society, especially its West Coast diversity. A number of the writers are from different ethnic backgrounds, a number are women, a number combine the two. In the pages, one finds creative nonfiction at its best--mostly plainly honest (this is what makes for the freshness), though sometimes teasingly elliptic, colorful, amusing, comprehensible, enlivening.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	RTWFF14MN3A4P	1558494731	723952273	The Contemporary African American Novel: Its Folk Roots and Modern Literary Branches	Books	5	4	6	N	N	study of African American literature in all its forms	Bell builds on his previous work \\"The Afro-American Novel and Its Tradition\\"; whose content is alluded to in the subtitle for this work. Chapters two thru five of this book are revisions and summaries of parts of the previous work. What is new to this book are its introductory memoir \\"On Becoming an African American Scholar,\\" its Introduction, chapters one and six thru eight, and the conclusion. A professor of English at Pennsylvania State U., Bell both expansively and acutely deals with the body of African American literature. His knowledge of this field is encyclopedic. While sharing in the common origin of the folk literature, African American literature nonetheless reflects broader literary movements such as neorealism, modernism, and postmodernism. Such authors have also had the outstanding talent and creativity to develop distinctive styles and voices. This voluminous, comprehensive study also ranges to what Bell terms \\"paraliterature,\\" which might also be called popular literature. This includes pulp fiction, formulaic adventure stories, supernatural tales, romances, science fiction, mystery and crime, and gay literature. Bell does not force these greatly diversified genres ranging from the enduring literary works of Richard Wright and Toni Morrison to the science fiction of Ray Delany and the mysteries of Walter Mosby into a procrustean bed of the folk tale sources of all. Rather, his ingenious linking of them together while doing justice to their uniqueness creates a constellation of African American literature which is both a guide to it and inducement for exploration of it.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	R1CXKLJMPZ4B69	0715633104	121511122	The Royal Tombs of Great Britain: An Illustrated History	Books	5	11	11	N	N	illustrated survey of all of Britain's royal tombs	Surprisingly considering England's attachment to the monarchy, there has been no comprehensive guide to the royal tombs--until this one. Dodson locates all of the known tombs of Britain and Scotland's long line of kings and queens of the varied kingdoms before they were united into the one United Kingdom and after they were when there was a single line of monarchs. With this, he gives notes on the historical background of each monarch, including his or her burial, and on \\"post-internment history,\\" which sometimes includes movement of the body to another resting place. Surveying the lives and burials of the numerous monarchs, \\"Royal Tombs...\\" can also serve as a guidebook to the burial places. There's just enough material for the historian looking for basic information and for the curious tourist. A teaching fellow in archaeology and anthropology at the U. of Bristol, Dodson has written previous books on the pyramids and royal families of Egypt.	2005-04-30
US	53067931	R13PIM30NNNHII	1857443950	776271453	Garry Kasparov on Fischer: Garry Kasparov On My Great Predecessors, Part 4	Books	5	7	14	N	N	one chess master analyzes games of another	The famed Russian chessmaster analyzes chess games of the legendary American Bobby Fisher against some of his strongest opponents during the years Fisher was recognized as the world's top chess player. In furnishing much material besides just a simple record of moves and occasional comments, Kasparov also presents lengthy discussions of the ups and downs of the competition during the tournaments and individual matches. The exceptional book on chess goes even beyond this to give a broad picture of the chess world of the time and the play of the noted chessmasters Samuel Reshevsky, Miguel Najdorf, and Bert Larsen. An invaluable book for serious chess players, while also of interest to ones attracted to the excitement and personalities of major chess tournaments; which in recent years have started to receive some media coverage.	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R3L8F4PXSKR3U6	0299201449	527759922	The Blind African Slave: Memoirs of Boyrereau Brinch, Nicknamed Jeffrey Brace (Wisconsin Studies in Autobiography)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	life and travails of an early slave in the North	The biography of the slave captured in Africa in the 1700s begins with his capture and goes on to cover \\"his adventures in the British navy, travels, sufferings, sales, abuses, education, service in the American war [of Independence], emancipation, conversion to the christian religion, knowledge of the Scriptures, memory, and blindness.\\" Prentiss, who wrote down the slave's story, was a Northern abolitionist. It's impossible to say how the slave Brace's story is colored by this. In the Introduction, Winter points to some known omissions. Brace's Christian faith and knowledge of the Bible seem to begin too early in his story; and with long passages from the Bible liberally and somewhat arbitrarily inserted in the text, intrude to a questionable, and certainly unnecessary, degree. Prentiss was attracted to Brace's life story because of how it could promote his abolitionist views rooted in his Christian faith. Brace was a decent person caught up in events far beyond his understanding or concern. He enlisted to fight in the Revolutionary War mainly to gain his freedom. After being freed for his service, he moved from Connecticut, where he was owned by a cruel slavemaster, to Vermont, where he continued to bear physical and financial difficulties. The facts of Brace's colorful, moving tale can be readily sifted out from Prentiss's extraneous matter--leaving a rare, memorable biography of a slave in the North, whose circumstances and options were considerably different from slaves in the South. The circumstances of Brace's capture in Africa and his time in Vermont in the last years of his life are of particular interest. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R1WX6WEUS6ZLID	0299206203	614379815	Isaac Bashevis Singer And The Lower East Side	Books	4	4	4	N	N	noted Yiddish writer and NYC street life	Davidson has collected varied photographs taken in the course of his relationship with the noted author Singer based on their mutual fascination with New York City street life. Some of the photos are stills from their surrealistic film on one of Singer's short stories. Others are from the portfolio \\"The Garden Cafeteria,\\" a rough-hewn eatery in Manhattan's Lower East Side popular with local Jews. Most of the characters and scenes in the photos could be from Singer's short stories noted for their comical, often somewhat grotesque or fantastical, depictions of Old World Jewry in the modern day. For Singer enthusiasts especially, there are several photos of him, and also a short story titled \\"The Beard.\\" The story is somewhat about Singer himself, beginning, \\"That a Yiddish writer should become rich, and in his old age to boot, seemed unbelievable.\\" <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R1FQ14UGZXPCSO	1889963259	993128103	Eastern Arctic Kayaks: History, Design, Technique	Books	5	9	9	N	N	outstanding history and study of a type of kayak	The Arctic regions covered are the coastal areas of Greenland, Hudson's Bay, Baffin Island, and Labrador. Swedish kayaks are also examined for similarities in construction and for historical comparisons. The authors also went to museums in western and northern European countries to study kayaks at these. The authors--both with in-depth backgrounds on the subject--do a sound, detailed study on historical, present-day, and recreational kayaks. Heath especially was interested in the value of design elements and kayaking techniques of the oldest kayaks for today's recreational kayakers. For three decades, Arima has been an ethnohistorian with Parks Canada focusing on the Arctic and northwest coast of North America. Text, photographs, and detailed design drawings of kayaks work together in relating unique information on the different aspects of kayaks. While the material covers a broad geographical area and hundreds of years of kayak-making and use in hunting and transportation, one is struck by the remarkable ingenuity of the design of early kayaks; which has stood the test of time to be the basis for modern-day kayaks. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R16WGE5FLUEOI4	0930741951	793268832	Unwrapping The Textile Traditions Of Madagascar (UCLA FMCH Textile Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	place of textile garments in multicultural African society	As major Madagascar art forms, shawls, dresses, loose-fitting shirts, and also burial shrouds are \\"fundamental to an individual's ethnic, ideological, spiritual, social, political, and economic identities.\\" These and similar garments have such a place because of the \\"ease with which cloth can be manipulated.\\" Among some groups in Madagascar, textiles woven by hand and simple, age-old, tools are central in relations between the living and deceased ancestors with the changing of decayed burial shrouds for new ones. Eleven essays by authors with a surprisingly eclectic background--including college teachers in archaeology and ethnology, museum curators, a biologist, and a poet--focus on particular topics of this African island nation's textiles attracting wide notice because of their quality of production, colorfulness, and social significance. An island that has for centuries been a crossroads of trade and migrations from southern Asia, the Middle East, and Africa, Madagascar textiles are particularly complex and diverse; and because of this historical background, they have special meaning for the different groups of the society, as well as for interaction among groups. Textile traditions in different geographical areas, reviews of collections of textiles, the wear of textiles at social events, and the island's silk moths are among the topics. Numerous color photographs, some close-ups in which the weave of a garment can be seen, make for appreciation of the varied textiles; while other photographs exhibit inhabitants of Madagascar wearing the textiles in social activities or ceremonies. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R2DC472U4RJHLM	0974664820	509995144	Graphic Classics Volume 11: O. Henry (Graphic Classics (Eureka))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	illustrated O. Henry stories	There's 13 illustrated O. Henry stories altogether, by additional illustrators than the few noted on the cover. The accomplished illustrators bring out in their own distinctive visual styles the diverse dramatic moments and general tones of the stories. The illustrations also accentuate the abbreviated, selected text of each tale. With stories ranging from only a few pages to about 20 at most, the variety of illustration styles can be reviewed and appreciated quickly in this work which fits right in to the current popularity for graphic novels and similar works. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R1Q9CWRFT51FLD	1592287204	708090815	Samurai: The Weapons and Spirit of the Japanese Warrior	Books	5	12	13	N	N	ffinely illustrated guide to variety of samurai weapons, etc	Sinclaire's work has a nice tie-in with the classic and current Asian movies with samurai or samurai-like characters. Coming to Japan about the eighth century from the Asian mainland, in Japan's insular, closed, society, the samurai weaponry took on their own distinctive design and use. The samurai class and its weapons both for warfare and ceremonial purposes remained a central, influential part of Japanese society until World War II. This study is at once comprehensive and succinct, with the pleasing and informative visual elements of color photographs, including close-ups, of samurai weapons, scenes from historical art work, and antique tinted photographs. Most are familiar with the Japanese samurai swords. But the less familiar armor, spears, bow and arrow, and even guns in the past couple of centuries receive equal attention. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R398F4HT0Z0QT6	0295984767	583251129	Afrocuba: Works On Paper, 1968-2003	Books	5	4	4	N	N	survey of leading modern-day Cuban artists	Bettelheim has put together a gallery of art works by 25 noted younger, contemporary, Cuban artists. The closing section is on Belkis Ayon, who died in 1999. A representative work of each of the artists faces a one-page essay on him or her. Many of the pictured works are from the past year or two. The oldest are from the 1970s. It's an eye-opening catalog displaying the liveliness and imagination in Cuban art works on paper over the past 30 years. One sees that Cuban art has not been retarded by U. S. efforts to ostracize Cuban under the Castro regime; and that as far as its art goes, Cuba reflects the latest in modern and contemporary art with respect to content and style, and in some cases political and social perspective. The Afrocuban works on paper contain all of the irony, postmodern collage, and abstract and biological forms of art of any country, while at the same time reflect earthy African roots and the social tensions and artifices of Cuba. A professor of art history at San Francisco State U., Bettelheim area of concentration is the African Diaspora. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R261PBG9NXQBZA	0916288129	915557712	End of an Exile: Israel, the Jews, and the Gentile World	Books	4	5	7	N	N	writings of Gentile author on Jews and commentaries on these	Parkes was an Anglican minister who wrote extensively, and influentially, on Jewish-Christian relations and the situation of Jews in Israel, especially their conflict with the Palestinians. At one time, Parkes was head of the London Jewish Historical Society, only the second non-Jew to hold this position. First published by the publisher Micah in 1954, the book was reissued in 1982 with six lengthy commentaries by noted theologians. This third edition adds four more commentaries. Reinhold Niebuhr and Tony Kushner are familiar contributors. The historical tie of Jews to the land of Israel and the fundamental role of \\"Palestinian Jewry...in shaping Jewish history\\" are two of several avenues pursued in forming an understanding of the vital place of Israel in Jewish history, religion, and psychology. Parkes' work and the elucidating commentaries aim not at resolutions for the conflict, but for understanding and comprehension of it--and in this, they succeed estimably. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R3FW4HYICTA8TB	087013728X	489720561	The Renewed, the Destroyed, and the Remade: The Three Thought Worlds of the Iroquois and the Huron, 1609-1650	Books	5	5	5	N	N	changes in Native American worldviews	Carpenter follows the various ways the Hurons and Iroquois tribes adapted to the activities and growing power, and in some cases the example, of the French and English in northeastern America and southern Canada in the early period of contact between them. Carpenter gets behind the devastating effects of alcohol, disease, warfare, and displacement to disclose and understand how these tribes tried to make sense of and adjust to these by modifications of their mythologies and related cultural factors. For instance, when the Indians became involved in fur trading, they \\"had to transform the beaver from a creature they accorded a measure of respect\\" because of its place in their myths and lore into a commodity. Similarly, the author goes into how Christianity affected the Indians' outlook when they did not convert outright to this religion spread by French Jesuits. The coming of the Europeans also changed the Indians' manner of warfare, from mostly skirmishes with little loss of life to an form of total war where villages were destroyed and their inhabitants taken into captivity. Carpenter is an assistant professor of history at Canada's U. of Saskatchewan whose work sheds light on the impact of Europeans on the minds and behavior of Native American tribes. Most of the scholarship in this area has looked to the external consequences such as drunkenness or migration; whereas Carpenter's gets to the changes in the fundamentals of the Native American's culture. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R3RDXUAWSPTEKD	0820326755	157833152	Negotiating for Georgia: British-Creek Relations in the Trustee Era, 1733-1752	Books	5	4	4	N	N	English-Native American relations and diplomacy	During the short time of the Trustee Era, the leader of the British colony of Georgia James Oglethorpe worked to establish a mutually beneficial, peaceful relationship with the Creek Indians, whose leader in this was Tomochichi. The activities between the two parties have a resemblance to the diplomatic activities between two countries. On a trip to England to get guidance on the developing negotiations, Oglethorpe took Tomochichi and other Creeks as representatives of the Creek nation. The relationship between the Creeks and the Georgia colony eventually worked out involved trade, land rights, and legal protections; and it was the basis for a military alliance in the War of Jenkin's Ear against the Spanish over differences in north Florida. The \\"charter\\" between the English colonists and the Creeks did not hold up with the coming of the Revolutionary War. In the early 1800s, the Creeks were relocated to Oklahoma. Sweet's account of this exceptional charter, or treaty, between European colonists and Native Americans evidences sophisticated and enlightened political behavior by both parties. This author is an assistant professor of history at Baylor. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	RLL2ZPG320QI	0299202542	982420890	Fratricide in the Holy Land: A Psychoanalytic View of the Arab-Israeli Conflict	Books	4	2	3	N	N	deeper understanding of Arab-Israeli struggle	Falk opens by surveying the \\"large body of scholarly literature on the Arab-Israeli conflict.\\" The bulk of this scholarship is contained in the bibliography of about 50 pages. Yet the psychology of either side as accounting for the origins of the conflict or as a basic factor in sustaining it is not dealt with as a particular subject in any book; and is rarely even referred to in the volumes literature. Falk is an Israeli psychologist concentrating in political psychology and psychohistory who goes into this ignored psychological factor in depth. The psychology of the opposing sides as formed by their histories, ethnicity, and ties to the land is analyzed, as well as the psychology of leaders of each side, particularly Ariel Sharon and Yassir Arafat. \\"Psychogeography\\" is used to clarify the fierce competing visions for the same relatively small area of the Middle East the Palestinians and Israelis have been fighting over for decades. Falk's chapter on \\"The Psychology of Suicide Bombers\\" is especially timely and informative considering 9/11 and current events in Iraq. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R28V0L0DLYQUET	066019175X	176771910	A History of the Native People of Canada, Volume III (A.D. 500--European Contact): Part 1: Maritime Algonquian, St. Lawrence Iroquois, Ontario ... (Mercury Series (0316-1854)) (Volume 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	study of Canadian Native Americans	This is the first part of an anthropological text that was divided into two parts to accommodate all of the relevant new material that was surfacing as it was being published.  The Part One focuses on the Maritime Algonquin, St. Lawrence and Ontario Iroquois, the Native Americans of the Glen Meyer/Western Basin, and the Northern Algonquin cultures. The geographical area encompassed in this Part is eastern Canada to the Prairie provinces and northward to the subarctic regions of this wide stretch of present-day Canada and parts of the United States. The Great Lakes area is also included. In accordance with a basically anthropological work, the abundant and diverse matter is divided into scientific-like sections such as cultural origins and descendants, subsistence, settlement patterns, cosmology, and external relationships for each of the identifiable Native American groups. The only note of history brought into the material is discussion of the major cultural changes brought on by the Agricultural Revolution beginning about 500A.D. The pages are numbered from 1185 to 1666 since the work is part of a series; although it stands alone in compiling the anthropological matter in the field it has outlined and picturing much of this in photographic plates.	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R3P9BET2764EWP	0870137271	957358828	Transatlantic Rebels: Agrarian Radicalism in Comparative Context	Books	5	3	3	N	N	interconnecttions with worldwide agrarianism	The topic is taken within a wide context--from South Africa to Prince Edward Island and Scotland, from Mexico and the United States to Germany. The period of time covered is wide also--from the 1500s to the present. The 11 collected essays treat the movement of \\"crops and techniques of cultivation, rumors, radical plebeian ideas, workers, sailors, and prisoners\\" in spreading political and social ideas throughout this wide area over the several centuries. This is seen as a kind of cross-pollenization, or a vein of globalization going on in the countries touched by the Atlantic since the Renaissance. In places, some authors discuss how the cultivation of a new crop such as corn or potatoes or tobacco brought to another country or an overseas market for it played a role in the dissemination and formation of agrarianism. One learns that there are historical and ongoing ways other than diplomacy, wars, books and the media, and immigration that particular ideas and perspectives spread in the world. These ideas spread and are shaped both by acceptance of them and resistance to them. Except for a couple, the essays' authors are college professors of history. The editors are authors of books in the areas of agrarianism and political and social ideas. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R1GTELYDRGXIJF	1574670948	910133384	The Sibyl Sanderson Story: Requiem for a Diva (Opera Biography)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	thorough biography of early, tragic opera diva	Born in 1864 in Sacramento, CA, Sibyl Sanderson was the first in a long line of celebrity opera singers running to Maria Callas and Beverly Sills in recent years. Yet, the first of this line of modern divas, she was vulnerable in ways that those following her were not--vulnerable both to illusions she created in her own mind and also to the designs of others on her. These others included Gilded Age tycoons and European royalty she met as she performed throughout the U. S. and Europe. Her marriage to a Cuban Lothario named Antonio Terry was especially destructive. With little protections against the harmful penchants of her own nature or guidance from any cautionary tales in the new environment of celebrity, media, high financial stakes, and notoriety by association that many sought from her, Sanderson suffered breakdowns onstage and practically continuous emotional pain and confusion. She died at 38 from an illness made worse by her ignoring her doctor's advice; which led some to believe she had intentionally brought on her own death. Hansen's is a voluminous biography of this latter 19th-century opera star whose fame in her day has been eclipsed by others who followed in her pattern of international fame, cult-like adulation, and impetuousness. With research from papers kept by Sanderson's relatives--often quoting from these--and a skillful balance of the many sides of her life, it's a basic resource for any study of Sanderson. Winsor uses his impressive background in music for a biography that is sympathetic and insightful. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R2Y5BNW7B5PAB2	0820326879	51843018	Pure Fire: Self-Defense as Activism in the Civil Rights Era	Books	5	4	4	N	N	civil rights as self-defense, new perspective on activism	Strain shifts the perspective on much of the civil-rights activism in the 1960s. For the most part, African Americans were not so much trying to make a new political order or create new social and economic ground as simply acting in self-defense. This makes sense when one considers that at the time, blacks were subject to institutionalized racism and frequently the targets of violence by whites with the tacit approval of the white political and legal authorities. In such circumstances, self-defense \\"was an essential part of the struggle for citizenship itself.\\" Struggling for equality in education, employment, opportunity, etc., the various forms of black activism from Martin Luther King's nonviolent tactics to demonstrations and boycotts to occasional armed resistance cannot be regarded as anything other than self -defense; which self-defense is recognized in law and is an inherent part of psychology and behavior of all individuals. The title comes from Malcolm X's comment that he was urging African Americans to return \\"pure fire\\" to whites' hatred and suppression of them. Strain--teaching history and American studies at Florida Atlantic U.--also notes a statement by a Robert Williams before a Congressional committee that he urged his followers that \\"we should fight for the enforcement of the Constitution of the United States.\\" Others have noted the character of self-defense in the civil-rights activism. But Strain goes far beyond simply giving a nod to this. He explores debates within the black community on the effectiveness and risks of violence in response to blatant and covert white violence and oppression; recounts the beliefs of proponents of violence such as Malcolm X; and assesses the role of advocating violence and instances of committing it in the changes worked by the civil-rights movement. <br />	2005-03-29
US	53067931	R2GNBM4RDSJJ69	1904668895	80868527	Costumes, Textiles and Jewellery of India	Books	5	13	14	N	N	social meanings of Indian garments	The Indian clothing expert Bhandari does a tour de force. Nothing is left out--from origins of and historical influences on Indian garb to materials and manufacture; from basic clothing to the variety of ornaments and accessories; from jewelry and bracelets to class and ethnic wear. The often exotic Indian clothing so noticeable to outsiders does not basically reflect the fashion tastes or personality of the wearer, but instead mainly denotes social station and sometimes occupation. As expected, the more sumptuous clothing and jewelry goes with those of higher class. But the typical clothing of farmers, laborers, and lower-class Indians is also colorful and elaborate in its own way. Rajasthan in northwestern India was chosen as the focus for this one-of-a-kind work because of its historical and cultural significance and the mix of different classes and ethnic groups found there. The Indian state's name is derived from Rajputs, or \\"sons of kings.\\" Bhandari's meticulous text is so fascinating and endlessly informative that one is hardly conscious of the exhaustive scholarship and research going into it. Often noting measurements, techniques used by the clothing makers, how an article is worn, and what is signifies, the text nonetheless does not strike one as being technical since it deals with such a colorful subject. Readers will fall into a pattern of looking at the attractive, rich color photographs and occasional illustrations and diagrams as they come, and then going to the text to find what interesting facts and points the author has on the items the men and women are wearing. Many readers will try to put their growing knowledge to work to guess social status of the individuals shown and the meanings of their accouterments. The descriptive captions should not be glossed over either. The color photo of one man notes that his \\"sword denotes his royal lineage, the silk tie [around it] signifying that it is carried in peace.\\" But one of the countless bits of social and cultural lore one learns is the significance of turbans in family relationships and relationships with others. A four-page glossary of hundreds of terms testifies to the complexity of Indian clothing. This is a remarkable work with its generous fund of knowledge, skilled organization, and magnetic appearance.cial and cultural lore one learns is the significance of turbans in family relationships and relationships with others. A four-page glossary of hundreds of terms testifies to the complexity of Indian clothing. This is a remarkable work with its generous fund of knowledge, skilled organization, and magnetic appearance. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R2HY9803LGZSCC	1592284248	429142842	Bert Darrow's Practical Fly Fishing: How To Cast And Fish Naturally	Books	5	1	2	N	N	guidance on fly fishing by expert with 30 years experience	Darrow imparts more than 30 years of fly fishing experience as both a fisherman and teacher. As in his instruction with innumerable individuals at all levels of the sport, he looks outside fly fishing for references and similarities readers can relate to to help them improve their skills smoothly and quickly. For example, Darrow stresses certain exercises for developing relevant physical motions and control for fly fishing. Listening to music can help a fisherman develop the right rhythm for casting. And the mental training practiced by many athletes has also found its way into the author's unique teaching method. Flies and equipment receive some attention. But the handbook is of most interest for its seasoned and thoughtfully worked out guidance by this author who is widely known in the sport and has received much media attention for his attachment to it and ability to teach others its finer points. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R2T4P11P3D7543	1929132735	665116900	Are We There Yet?	Books	5	4	5	N	N	the varied landscape of Australia for children	A trip by a family with three children around Australia takes in wildlife, seacoasts, natural formations, and deserts, different inhabitants, tourist spots, and other points of interest. Most of these are pictured three or four per page. The youngest child, Billy, misses the family pets, and keeps asking when they are going to get home. The family is glad to be eventually home after the lengthy trip; but everyone appreciates what they have seen and learned about the large, diverse continent of Australia. For ages 4-8. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R1MSAJ8D1GLTGI	3775715088	96338253	Vanessa Beecroft: Photographs, Films, Drawings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	the work of noted contemporary woman artist	Vanessa Beecroft captures the modern-day ambiguities of feminine sexuality and image, as represented by nudity, like no other artist...more discerningly and more revealingly than any other artist. Groups of nude women sit around a long dinner table or stand in groups as if waiting for a bus. At first sight, except for their nudity, they look casual and normal. But longer viewing betrays a stiltedness, as if the women cannot get out of their subtle caricatures to communicate or touch one another in any genuine way. Other works are not so subtle on this central theme of the artificiality forced on most women in contemporary culture--such as the picture of a woman seemingly strapped to a hospital bed. The blank white, antiseptic, backgrounds of many of Beecroft's performance-like works and photographs emphasize the speciman-like quality and unreality of the figures in the foreground. Beecroft's similar group scenes with men in uniforms are ingenious counterpoints to the group scenes of nude women, while also making a point about masculine image. Snapshots and drawings having the rawness and tentativeness of experiments rather than the more complex imagery of the larger works nonetheless by their passive, somewhat anesthetized subjects, skewed angles, or provocative colors, affix aspects of Beecroft's main theme. Beecroft was born in Genoa in 1969. Showing major works along with a variety of lesser works, the book exhibits the distinctive art on contemporary preoccupations by which this artist has gained her much-deserved recognition. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R18K928SV336OZ	0252029291	437007887	Baby and Child Heroes in Ancient Greece (Traditions)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	new dimensions to Greek mythology	Baby and child figures in Greek mythology have been virtually ignored in favor of the outsized, colorful, or complex adult characters, But Pache--assistant professor of classics at Yale U.--discloses from research of Greek literary works and monuments, coins, vases, and other archaeological relics that young, often little more than infant, characters had an essential part in Greek mythology. Mostly, they represented \\"parental fears and sense of guilt\\" with regard to young children, including untimely deaths. In fact, where adult mythological figures were often related to a particular village or region, certain \\"child heroes...become Panhellenic figures at the center of some of the most important ancient religious festivals.\\" In this study methodically and extensively covering previously neglected and in some cases previously unknown ground, Pache adds new dimensions to Greek mythology and its relation to the psychology and outlooks of the Greek classical civilization that is one of the primary sources of Western culture. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	RIGAHHB36MOZY	9074822614	908566218	Heroes of the Kabuki Stage: An Introduction to the World of Kabuki with Retellings of Famous Plays, Illustrated with Woodblock Prints	Books	5	9	11	N	N	illustrated study of Kabuki theater	The large, coffee-table quality book offers a particularly engaging, different way to learn about the kabuki theater that has long been an integral part of Japanese society. With full-color pictures of Japanese woodcuts on nearly every page, it's really an art book on kabuki. One aspect of the woodcuts relating to the theater are woodcuts of actors. These testify to the important place of kabuki in Japanese society, while they sometimes served as a sort of publicity. Besides offering a multi-dimensional treatment covering origins and evolution, playwrights and actors, the yearly cycle of kabuki, costumes, staging, and music, the work is also a lifelong reference--with its six indexes for instance. The Dutch authors are steeped in the subject from extensive research and attraction to Japanese prints. Thirty-seven kabuki dramas are reviewed with casts of characters, narratives of story lines, appropriate woodcuts, and endnotes and references. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R2O0L3QJ9QGA2P	1900486377	843569892	Skywald!: The Complete Illustrated History of the Horror-Mood	Books	5	4	6	N	N	appreciation of influential horror comics publisher	Alan Hewetson was the head of the publisher Skywald putting out horror-fantasy comics for a few years in the early 1970s. He died before the publication of this review of his short-lived but influential publishing company. Skywald's influence is seen today especially in the content and special effects in popular horror films. It's also seen, though not so clearly or directly, in how moods of fear and dread are created in many mainstream movies. Never straying from Hewetson's keen interest in exploring illustration for the horror genre, the Skywald periodicals had a lasting appeal only to its dyed-in-the-wool fans. For them, the Skywald comics with sensationalistic, macabre, imaginative illustrations developed what became known as its distinctive \\"horror-mood.\\" This review of the important publisher in the history of this genre contains articles on the horror-genre style of writing, its art, particular themes, interviews with Hewetson, and memoirs of him and Skywald. Alternating with these are 19 original illustrated stories effectively evoking Skywald's distinctive \\"horror-mood\\" and demonstrating its range of comic art. For fans of the horror genre and students of this vein of popular culture, the book \\"stands as a time capsule for an independent publishing house that had a true visionary [i. e., Alan Hewetson] at the reins.\\" <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R15X8XAULCFB1K	3775714316	812536103	Gerhard Richter: Editions 1965-2004: Catalogue Raisonn	Books	5	32	32	N	N	comprehensive illustrated catalog of work by major artist	A recent survey reported in the N. Y. Times on the most popular modern artists based on museum exhibitions, website hits, and other criteria placed Gerhard Richter third, closely behind Picasso and Warhol. So here is a catalogue raisonne documenting the art of this leading, popular contemporary artist over the past three decades. It is as much an art book on Richter as a work of complete documentation for reference. Most catalogues are similar to book bibliographies: They simply list all an artist's works over a period time with relevant notes. Often they picture some works, usually in black-and-white, sometimes with a few in color. But this comprehensive reference on Richter has more than 200 color photographs of his art works, nearly all of these one per page. The relevant annotations including measurements, medium, and background run alongside each of the pictured works. Additionally--again, unlike most catalogue raisonnes--this book has three essays by art experts on Richter's aesthetics and the various mediums he works in and techniques he uses. Richter's position as a popular and also influential contemporary artist is based on his imaginative and revealing treatment of images. This is a basic reference/art book for any private or public book collection on modern art. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R36PIM76GQGAKF	0970380925	626889026	It's Me! (with Audio CD)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	young girl learns about basic identity	Young Patricia in this book for ages 4-8 enjoys making believe she is someone else by dressing up and acting. She first imagines she is Princess Finula-Lily, followed by a scary witch, her mother, and a famous writer. She makes believe she is someone else so often that when she dresses only as herself, others in her family think she is trying to be a farmer's daughter or a person on one of her favorite TV shows. It's all in good fun though--everyone, including Patricia, knows she is always herself. The CD tells the story with amusing sound effects. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R2V127C9PGD18M	0970077475	706047044	Uta Barth: White Blind (Bright Red)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Uta Barth, outstanding contemporary photographer	In Tumlir's essay titled \\"Uta Barth: Figures of Stasis and Flux,\\" he writes, \\"By purging her pictures of their ostensible subjects, [Barth] has sought to redirect our attention to a kind of perceptual noise, that which intrudes all around: in the setting, the outlying objects, the air.\\" In this \\"purging\\" of the subject, Barth's art photographs are quintessentially postmodern. To some, they might seem nihilistic in their austerity and spareness. The photographs are a series of leafless tree branches against a winter sky. But as Barth explains about her art work, she is not making a statement about nihilism; rather she is trying to evoke awareness of perception. The tree branches can be seen as neural networks. Perception can in some ways be compared with the process by which a camera makes a picture. The depth and relevance of the intended artistic interplay with Barth's photographs depend on sophisticated understandings of psychology and physiology along with keen abilities in introspection, conception, and articulation. They also depend to some degree on inventive understandings of psychology and physiology--which inventions this artist tries to bring to birth. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R1QXDLVQFK2RGJ	1932033262	888771196	The Tank Killers: A History of America's World War II Tank Destroyer Force	Books	5	38	44	N	N	tank warfare in World War II	Yeide's \\"Tank Killers\\" is \\"intended...[to be] both a broad history of the Tank Destroyer Force and a representative look into the world of men who fought in the TD battalions.\\" The TDF was formed in the early days of the North Africa campaign when Allied Forces faced the vaunted German Panzers. Involved in the war in Europe on all fronts including the Italian campaign, D-Day, and the invasion of Germany, the TDF always had an eclectic, ad hoc character to it. Faced with the seemingly incongruous requirements of greater mobility than the German tanks to find them and then outmaneuver them and at the same time powerful enough weapons to destroy the enemy tanks, the TDF made do with armed Jeeps, artillery, tanks, anti-tank mines and hand-placed explosives. The Force was filled with personnel with varied specialties and combat experience brought in from varied Army units. As important as the TDF was in taking out the deadly German tanks commonly threatening to stop advancing infantry, the Force was never smoothly integrated into the regular combat forces. It was disbanded shortly after World War II ended. Yeide is an author of a previous work on U. S. tank warfare in Europe whose history of this brief, but crucial Army tank force contains enough material on individual soldiers, tactics, and combat for any World War II and military history buff. What is new and most captivating about it, though, is the continuing innovation and scrappiness of the men of the Tank Destroyer Force as they gained more information about their foe, weapons evolved, and terrains and other conditions changed during the course of the War. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R2MQHSEADDBFST	1574670999	821716924	The Mahler Symphonies: An Owner's Manual (includes 1 CD)	Books	5	69	76	N	N	introduction to Mahler's major symphonic works	Hurwitz breaks down Mahler's nine symphonies plus his song cycle \\"The Song of the Earth\\" into their parts as these contribute to the whole; and the parts too are broken down for their development, tone, and instruments. Analyses and commentary mingle with frequent metaphoric, near-poetic, evocations of musical passages. In the Fifth Movement of Symphony No. 5, \\"Horn and woodwinds unfold a series of perky little tunes....\\" In the Second Movement, \\"As this climax dies away trailing clouds of strings and horns, the woodwinds slither back in with sinister whirring scales.\\" Hurwitz also gives attention to the spiritual ideas and the emotions embodied in Mahler's music. The author of \\"Beethoven or Bust: A Practical Guide to Learning About and Listening to Great Music,\\" Hurwitz writes about music in a style that is suitable for readers of all ages from young adults and up. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	RP5AO3R2JWMZW	0819567388	780015092	American Science Fiction TV: Star Trek, Stargate, and Beyond	Books	5	3	4	N	N	evolving themes of TV science fiction	Johnson-Smith, a lecturer in film and TV at an English university, reaches the conclusion that unlike earlier periods of science fiction, \\"modern American sf fiction is neither utopian or dystopian...it enforces a critique of the Western mythos whilst renegotiating its finer aspects.\\" This Western mythos centers on the desire for exploration. This desire was seen as far back as the Gilgamesh myth of the ancient Babylonians; and it emerged in American culture especially in Westward expansion and the related romance of the West. It entails a sense of wonder and the hope of encounter with the Sublime--elements undeniably evident in modern TV sci-fi, which are a major reason for their appeal. But imparting this sense of wonder and picturing the Sublime became possible only when TV technology improved from its first days. Only in recent years has TV arrived in an \\"era where far-seeing 'tele-vision' can finally live up to its name\\" by making use of \\"brilliant colors and dynamic motion\\" to enhance sf narratives. Today's TV science-fiction shows, notably \\"Star-Trek,\\" are contrasted with earlier ones such as \\"Twilight Zone\\" creating an atmosphere mainly by suggestion, leaving much to the viewer's imagination. The author identifies a new era in science-fiction TV and analyzes the bases of its themes and popular appeal. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R2UEYVWZ6BH2BJ	1572333510	564913094	Retro Ball Parks: Instant History, Baseball, New American City (Sports & Popular Culture)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	new baseball parks and urban culture	A work in the publisher's series Sport and Popular Culture, \\"Retro Ball Parks\\" looks at the urban phenomenon of the building of new, state-of-the-art, baseball stadiums to try to bring back this sport as it is viewed nostalgically. These are the stadiums built in cities around the country usually with some public funds and big tax breaks and other economic favors to the team owners. They are characterized by costly suites for corporate and well-to-do fans, rising ticket prices for all levels of regular seats from boxes to bleachers, moveable roofs and other features to provide comfort for the fans, and corporate logos lining the walls of the playing fields. Rosensweig is interested not only in how these stadiums promising revivals of urban centers come to be out of aspects of contemporary culture and political and economic interests; and also in the peculiar, particularly postmodern, notion of authenticity regarding baseball such stadiums are supposed to revive. In many cases, new businesses have sprung up around the new stadiums attempting to replicate neighborhoods that have been torn down to make way for them. Rosenweig's feelings on this phenomenon he covers are seen in the title of his introduction--\\"Cheap Grace.\\" The author did most of his research in Cleveland, where the Cleveland Indian's Jacobs Field was built as the anchor of the Gateway Developmental District. \\"The Gateway serves as a fascinating case study of the cultural shifts enacted by the transformation of a city's economic base from local commerce and manufacturing to recreational tourism.\\" Stadiums in other cities are brought in as well, notably the Baltimore Orioles' Camden Yards, the major urban stadium project giving rise to the others. Rosenweig is a professor of Inter-Disciplinary Studies at the U. of Virginia. <br />	2005-03-01
US	53067931	R3T8A7FBR51KBM	1413747000	334430219	Dead Air	Books	5	0	1	N	N	suspense with terrorist in contemporary America	In this second suspense thriller by Mike Brogan, Hallie Mara, a young woman doctor, and her friend Reed stumble onto a psychopathic plot to kill many thousands of Americans based on particular consumer habits of theirs. But with no firm evidence, the police give no credibility to their warning. Left to their own devices and despite the danger they put themselves in, the two plucky and innovative protagonists feel compelled to try to break up the scheme to save the countless innocent lives. As the reader tries to solve the specifics of the diabolic, vengeful plot along with them, Hallie and Reed become deeply involved in a detective search following the clues and harrowing, like-threatening action.<br /><br />  While working in Europe at one time, author Mike Brogan experienced terrorism lurking just under the surface of normality when a bomb exploded near where he was living. Also, he has received a Writer's Digest award for his previous novel, a suspense thriller titled \\"Business to Kill For.\\" Readers of popular, action-filled fiction with intriguing plot lines will look forward to his next book.	2005-02-25
US	53067931	R1H085SF3K6YE5	1418416975	386349161	2: Raising Cuddlebugs And Bravehearts: Adult Temperament And Parenting Styles	Books	5	1	1	N	N	central place of temperament in parenting	The two volumes cover the two primary elements in the child-parent relationship--namely, the temperament of the child and the temperament of the parent. As anyone who has had this relationship knows, these temperaments do not always mesh ideally or effectively. With their professional and working experiences in the field of child care, Harkey and Jourgensen take a good look at the crucial place of the respective temperaments in child-rearing. With this, they provide tests for identifying different types of temperaments and discuss how the interaction of the different--sometimes similar, sometimes complementary, sometimes opposing--child and parent temperaments work in the relationship. Harvey has been a professor of psychology at California State University-Pomona. Her daughter Jourgensen is a certified trainer for the Myers-Brigg Temperament Indicator who gives workshops on temperament measurement and parenting. <br />     The importance of temperament in the child-parent relationship cannot be overestimated. As the experienced authors point out, the two different temperaments making for the nexus of the child-parent relationship are usually the main factor in the degree of success or failure of child-rearing. No one would deny this is the basis for the quality of the relationship between a parent and child. <br />     In focusing on temperament, the co-authors recognize the conditions for the effectiveness of any school of parenting. The usually overlooked or taken-for-granted subject of temperament they bring in does not aim to replace any school, theory, style, etc., but to form the basis for how guidance, rules, discipline, etc., are brought into and inculcated in child-rearing. They offer no quick fix to any problems of parenting or a child-parent relationship. But their subject and the counsel they relate in applying it is invaluable for parents, teachers, counselors, etc., regarding the challenges, dilemmas, and uncertainties of relationships with youngpersons.	2005-02-24
US	53067931	R1I0VEMUOGQOXJ	1418434299	809748299	1: Raising Cuddlebugs And Bravehearts: Measuring And Understanding Your Child's Temperament	Books	5	2	3	N	N	central place of temperment in parenting	The two volumes cover the two primary elements in the child-parent relationship--namely, the temperament of the child and the temperament of the parent. As anyone who has had this relationship knows, these temperaments do not always mesh ideally or effectively. With their professional and working experiences in the field of child care, Harkey and Jourgensen take a good look at the crucial place of the respective temperaments in child-rearing. With this, they provide tests for identifying different types of temperaments and discuss how the interaction of the different--sometimes similar, sometimes complementary, sometimes opposing--child and parent temperaments work in the relationship. Harvey has been a professor of psychology at California State University-Pomona. Her daughter Jourgensen is a certified trainer for the Myers-Brigg Temperament Indicator who gives workshops on temperament measurement and parenting. <br />     The importance of temperament in the child-parent relationship cannot be overestimated. As the experienced authors point out, the two different temperaments making for the nexus of the child-parent relationship are usually the main factor in the degree of success or failure of child-rearing. No one would deny this is the basis for the quality of the relationship between a parent and child. <br />     In focusing on temperament, the co-authors recognize the conditions for the effectiveness of any school of parenting. The usually overlooked or taken-for-granted subject of temperament they bring in does not aim to replace any school, theory, style, etc., but to form the basis for how guidance, rules, discipline, etc., are brought into and inculcated in child-rearing. They offer no quick fix to any problems of parenting or a child-parent relationship. But their subject and the counsel they relate in applying it is invaluable for parents, teachers, counselors, etc., regarding the challenges, dilemmas, and uncertainties of relationships with youngpersons.	2005-02-24
US	53067931	R2200DVQBVBCBI	1932656022	30122446	Dark Side of Time	Books	5	1	1	N	N	novel explores millenial contest between good and evil	The style of this latest expansive supernatural novel by the prolific Chernozemsky incorporates \\"elements of the New Testament written as a Noh play.\\" The author's knowledge of the \\"Theater of the Absurd\\" from his days as a young actor in Paris is another influence. In a less experienced author's hands, such devices would make for a crazy quilt of a book. But with Chernozemsky, they serve to brings his ideas, vision, and interests into dramatic focus. <br />     These center around the main theme of the \\"various reincarnations of Christ and his coexistence with the Anti-Christ.\\" The benevolent, pacific, character Jesus Christ of the Bible is but one manifestation of the good in its eternal struggle with evil. The protagonist named Gordon encounters individuals in the present who are from different time periods. After examining altered historical religious documents kept in a secret vault at the Vatican, Gordon gains a realization of the Manichaean contest between good and evil playing out in terms of the contingencies of time, personality, and all of the other variables of history and human life. <br />     All this makes for an engaging and fascinating exploration into the spiritual inklings and contests in today's world. As in his previous novels, in \\"Dark Side of Time,\\" Chernozemsky delves imaginatively into timeless subjects and concerns affecting the lives of everyone in different ways in different ages. <br />	2005-02-18
US	53067931	R3M6OND0L484UE	1592285848	786382803	Orvis Ultimate Book of Fly Fishing: Secrets From The Orvis Experts	Books	5	23	26	N	N	illustrated manual on all aspects of fly fishing	The visual elements of color photos of fishermen, flies, and fishes, and detailed illustrations of fly-fishing techniques discussed in many of the 34 chapters by expert fly fishermen make this fishing manual particularly informative as well as attractive. The four-page detailed Index in smaller print is another reason for the manual's particular relevance and usefulness for fishermen. The contents and writing evidence that the editor and the several authors know their prospective readers. With their identification with them, editor and authors know the challenges and questions on fly fishermen's minds, and also understand the allure and satisfactions of this sport. In \\"How Trout Feed,\\" the editor in one of his articles advises readers, \\"If water temperatures rise above seventy degrees F. in summer, both insect hatches and trout feeding dwindle.\\" Lou Tabory tells \\"How to Read a Beach\\" in salt-water fly fishing for bluefish. The first eleven articles are on the general subjects of casting and flies. Subsequent sections deal with fishing for trout, steelhead (salmon), and bass, with a closing section on salt-water fishing. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R28ZQ3ISNEKXJB	1574324098	141797331	The Big Book Of Cigarette Lighters: Identification & Values	Books	5	3	5	N	N	easy-to-use guide with color photos and succinct captions	Colorful photos capturing details of hundreds of all kinds of lighters make this a prime guide for collectors. The captions right beside each photo note material, manufacturer, date, size, and price range--e. g., \\"Chromium lighter/case, made for king-size cigarettes, by Evans. Circa early 1950s. 4-3/4\\"h, 2-1/2w. $30.00-50.00.\\" Animals, Art Deco, Beyond the Ordinary, Decorative, Miniatures, and Sets are among the many different categories. The category Miscellaneous Tobacco Accessories for pipe holders, match boxes, cigarette tins, etc., comes at the end. Numerous sharp photos, simple informative captions, and clear organization make this a ready reference for collectors and dealers at all levels. With its many photos arranged orderly, it is particularly useful to beginners to scan through to find out what types of lighters and related items to keep their eyes open for at flea markets and other resources.	2005-01-26
US	53067931	RLR438VO2P1VW	0892367679	198816128	The Etruscans Outside Etruria	Books	5	8	9	N	N	the extensive influence of ancient Etruscans	\\"The goal of this volume is to provide a survey of the movement of Etruscan culture into the various regions of ancient Italy, the Mediterranean, and continental Europe: to follow as its title states--the Etruscans outside Etruria.\\" Etruria was an area in northwestern Italy. As the Preface notes, there has been much study on the Greek and Near Eastern influences on Etruscan culture, but not much on the influence of Etruscan culture on these--a deficit this work aims to make up for. In keeping with its goal, archaeological evidence in areas outside of ancient Etruria is examined for this Etruscan influence. This examination begins with the broad regions of the Mediterranean and Europe; then continue methodically through 14 specific areas in Italy, including the islands of Corsica, Sardinia, and Sicily. Most of these areas had Greek colonies. Many questions about Etruscan culture, especially its relationship to early Rome, have been at least partly answered in recent decades. This work of essays by Italian experts in the field and related visual matter takes Etruscan studies to the next level--namely, following the influence of Etruscan culture on a much wider area. As expected with this publisher connected with the Getty Museum, the book has the highest standards of production, design, and content. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R16H05KB5LWR4H	1904668526	98841623	Gregorian Chants: The Illustrated History of Religious Chanting	Books	5	9	13	N	N	popular introduction to Gregorian chants with CD	Most of the content is on the Gregorian chants of the Catholic Church. But there is some material on the precedent of religious chanting in early and classical Mediterranean cultures, and also short sections on chanting in the world's other major religions. Gregorian chants getting their name from Pope Gregory of the late sixth century are regarded as the most mature development of Christian chanting. This Pope is \\"believed to be responsible for arranging the Gregorian chants which became the central pieces in religious services\\" with his historic reformation of Roman Catholic liturgy. Shearing puts the Gregorian chants in the context of the history of the Catholic Church, and discloses how spiritual and ecclesiastical concerns shaped them. Some technical, musicological, material on them is also included. This heavily illustrated relatively popular treatment of the chants is fortuitous considering their popularity on CDs, which takes them out of their religious context. The CD with this book contains 16 Gregorian chants. Shearing is a writer and lecturer who has traveled widely in pursuit of his spiritual interests. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	RE195KQJ8JP35	140511259X	280898259	The Origins of War: Violence in Prehistory	Books	5	14	14	N	N	origins of war as seen in early behavior and society	With a \\"somewhat evolutionary approach,\\" the in-depth, wide-ranging investigation looks to economic changes, environmental use, technological progress, and social structures as not only prompting war at different times, but also as bringing about changes in the ways wars were waged. The authors accept that the penchant for waging war is innate in human beings. This attribute was not engendered at some point in human evolution. The authors show that violence can be seen in archaeological findings of the earliest groups. The earliest violence was the use of techniques in hunting against other human beings. Human sacrifice, and possibly torture, can be seen in cave drawings. Even the development of agriculture and settled communities did not quell the penchant for violence, but in some ways carried it to the next level. The authors have no political or social agenda--they do not go into implications of their well-substantiated postulate that warfare is derived from inherent characteristics of human beings. Zammit is a doctor and paleopathologist whose knowledge of these fields brings a special insight into signs of violence on human remains and psychology and behavior which are the sources of war and go into war when it breaks out. Guilaine's fields are archeology and social science; which allow him to offer unfamiliar, yet plainly pertinent and unassailable disclosures about societies' penchants for war. With their different perspectives, the co-authors hone in on the core human characteristics accounting for the constancy of war in culture. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R3T96NZVV3T814	1890771902	4932959	Peaceful Painter: Memoirs of an Issei Woman Artist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	life and art of Japanese-American, including WWII internment	Hisako Hibi never had an easy life. She came to the U. S. in 1920 from Japan hoping to find a better life for herself. But in the 1940s, along with tens of thousands of other Japanese-Americans, she was put into a detention camp. After the war, she worked in dress factories after her husband died. The constant changes in her life never gave her the opportunity to pursue her artistic ambitions beyond some brief education in her early years in the U. S. But she picked up enough to paint oil paintings in a bright, bold, somewhat cubist style. Many of these offer views of the detention camps she was held at. Hibi was also an observant, competent writer of English who kept a journal, lengthy passages of which are also included. This Issei woman's daughter has also added photographs to this commemoration of her mother's life which typifies the experiences of Japanese on the West coast during World War II. At the same time, it draws a memorable portrait of this woman who recorded in pictures and words historical and personal incidents in her quiet, determined, accomplished way. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	RAAZ39EX2DC6G	9774248309	233376951	The Early Coptic Papacy: The Egyptian Church and Its Leadership in Late Antiquity (Popes of Egypt)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Egyptian Coptic Church as a historical and religious subject	The history by an assistant professor of religious studies at Yale follows the Coptic Church from its origins to the coming of Islam about the seventh century mostly through the men heading it. Volumes Two and Three of this series by other authors deal with different stages of this Egyptian Christian Church. This first clearly definable period of this volume laid the grounds for the survival of the Coptic Church down to today even though with the coming of Islam, it was marginalized and its members often discriminated against. In many ways, the study of the Coptic papacy resembles the study of the Catholic papacy and the first years of the Catholic Church. There were similar decisions important in establishing the Coptic Church; the personalities of the early Coptic popes were especially important in creating the internal nature and public image of the Church; and there were theological controversies over basic doctrines and beliefs. \\"Apostolicity, martyrdom, monastic patronage, and theological resistance\\" are the four major themes during this formative period for the Coptic Church. \\"The Early Coptic Papacy\\" along with the companion volumes substantiates the Coptic Church as a subject in religious studies with its own history worthy of study. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R800KHVI3WJ0N	0976127504	958866179	Letters from the Woods: Looking at Life through the Window of Wilderness	Books	4	2	2	N	N	the wholesomeness and inspiration of nature	Like all good nature writing, Hurley's reaches for more than simple narration and description of moments with nature; although these serve as the grounds for the deeper meditations. For Hurley, nature draws out reflections on God's Creation and one's place in the greater scheme of things. But Hurley does not only look beyond himself to see a grandeur nature is the threshold for; he also looks inward to explore how his attachment to nature shaped him throughout his life and instilled in him an sense of closeness to others. \\"Through these essays I wanted to express to [readers] something of the hidden, eternal meaning of the wilderness through my experiences of it as a child and later as a husband and father.\\" The 33 essays are collected from the author's periodical \\"Paddle & Portage\\" which was discontinued when he turned his attention to his law business to support his growing family. Many hazy-edged photographs intermixed with the text put the reader in the mood of the author's writing and evoke experiences with nature. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R25SVCBMLEM45U	0826215645	79658172	Eric Voegelin's Dialogue with the Postmoderns: Searching for Foundations	Books	5	15	15	N	N	collected articles on little-known influential philosopher	\\"Voegelin's lifelong meditation on transcendence...led him to search repeatedly and consistently for appropriate symbolizations that provide an understanding of the ground of being without resorting to rigid and dangerous concretizations...We have called that a search for foundations without foundationalism.\\" What this means is that the influential mid 20th-century philosopher Eric Voegelin searched for ways to stay in touch with the spiritual, historical, and existential fundamentals giving life substance, meaning, and direction without resorting to the extremes of dogma or totalitarianism. By his own experiences as an emigre from Europe threatened by Nazism and his philosophical interests growing out of them, he had a unique, and fertile, understanding of modernism's yearning for new, enriching dimensions of spirituality and for reliable, meaningful stability behind the era's new forms of politics such as Nazism and Communism and the delusions and conceits of modern individuals. Voegelin makes trenchant criticisms of these and other radical, misguided modernist creeds and styles. Gnosticism as arising in the modern era is one aberrant attempt to gain heightened spirituality he criticized especially. A philosopher, not a political scientist or social critic, Voegelin only rarely refers directly to specific errors and evils of modern culture. But one familiar with the contests of the modern world continuing into this day understands those which his work grapples with. The editors, both with Louisiana universities, collect five articles relating Voegelin's voluminous writings with other major late 19th-century and 20th-century philosophers and thinkers. The names Nietzsche, Ricoeur, Deleuze, and Husserl crop up in different essays. Classical sources of Voegelin's extensive works based on a few simple precepts are also discussed. The essays are rounded out with introductory and closing sections by the editors which provide biographical information on Voegelin andput the project of the book into perspective. The collected academic philosophical articles demonstrate the continuing relevance of Voegelin's thinking on the main, though often elusive, issues of modern culture, politics, and individual lives while also serving as an introduction to this philosopher whose influence continues to grow. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R3AAGV3Y03IFLB	1555536239	907527944	The Rise and Fall of the Broadway Musical	Books	5	12	14	N	N	history and critique of Broadwaty musicals	Grant dates the golden age of the Broadway musical between 1927-1966, epitomized by the legendary pair Rodgers and Hammerstein and their musical \\"Oklahoma,\\" among others. No one would argue with this. But Grant is concerned with more than expounding why this was the golden age. He is also concerned with what happened in Broadway and the general culture toward the end of the 1960s to bring this golden age to an end. He finds his answers in both technological and social changes which practically everyone is aware of, but which readers would not look to as reasons for the decline of such musicals. The spread of electronic music changed what audiences became accustomed to. Rock and other popular music ruined an appreciation for the brightness, simplicity, and style of the type of music and songs of the classical Broadway musical. Along with this, changing tastes in entertainment favored special effects, dancing, and often celebrities as actors over fetching scores and memorable melodies. \\"Director-Choreographers Co-opted a Writer's Medium\\" is how Grant puts it. The factors Grant sees as responsible for the decline in the quality--if not always the box office receipts--of Broadway musicals at their best is evident in the way Broadway musicals are advertised and marketed today. The author is a composer and writer who had done concert music and theater pieces performed in the U. S. and Europe. His previous book is \\"Pen: A History of Classical Music Criticism in America.\\" This is a work combining literary and artistic criticism and history with cultural studies on one of the most characteristic American popular art forms. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R3FU3J8G27GP33	0714614858	261787629	The Druids	Books	5	2	2	N	N	wide-ranging archaeological study of bases of Druidism	Kendrick's scholarly historical, anthropological, and archaeological study of the Druids and subjects necessarily related to them for an accurate understanding of them--which is to some extent a contingent understanding--was first published in the latter 1920s. He makes no attempt to popularize the Druids, as has been done by so many recent authors of New Age bent singling out the Druids as exemplary models of nature worship. Today, the Druids are popularly identified with ancient Ireland, adding to their mystique by the suggestion that their spirituality remained pure by being so distant from continental Europe and apart from the British Isles. But Kendrick is not swayed at all by popular beliefs or even more solid presumptions about the Druids found among some scholars. \\"It seems likely, however, that the druidic caste in Ireland was never anything but a very faint reflection of the Gallic system, and one that speedily became isolated and degenerate.\\" In discussing the subjects of Druidic religion and their temples, including the intriguing stone monuments found in England and also places in Europe, he stays in touch with the archaeological evidence complemented by surviving written documents. In trying to answer the question about the pacific nature of a society figuring into the origins of the Druids, he points out that farming tools found in ancient burial sites far outnumber weapons. But he also notes that this is not conclusive, and makes the point that the proportion changes if one regards a certain kind of ax as a weapon. Kendrick's main purpose for the book was \\"to provide a complete and well-documented summary of the whole of the pertinent material upon which a study of this subject should be properly based.\\" Kendrick's achievement, then, is to lay out the grounds for study of the Druids, not search doggedly for any conclusions or paint a picture rooted in his own spiritual yearnings and romanticism. The author lays this ground out in the broad topicareas of Tradition, Prehistory, History, Religion, Temples, and Origins, with an appendix of passages from Greek and Roman texts in their original languages. Other  passages from Greek and Roman writings are quoted in English in the main text. Fifty-one illustrations and maps are mixed in with the chapters. No matter what one's beliefs about the Druids, Kendrick's wide-ranging, authoritative study is a fascinating study of ancient European culture and history. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R6SRWEUKNCP6I	0762730897	391179078	Happy Trails: A Pictorial Celebration Of The Life And Times Of Roy Rogers And Dale Evans	Books	4	15	15	N	N	illustrated, popular biography of the famous cowboy couple	The long marriage and professional relationship of Roy Rogers and Dale Evans throughout the 1940s and '50 is presented in a mostly sunny light, as it was in their popular TV series and movies. Not that there aren't some dark moments: Roy Roger's first wife died; and three of the couple's nine children died. But while the sorrows of such moments are not overlooked, it is the strength of Roy and Dale which comes shining through, as when dealing with culprits or problems in their films. The popular, largely pictorial biography contains a number of heretofore unpublished family photos. Fans of these stars of early TV and aficionados of popular culture will take to this book. While not undermining or even threatening the fond popular image of the couple, it presents them as not just stars, but ones who had a life outside of the limelight as well. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R30G1CES8WUXE5	1574670980	835769359	Charles Ives and Aaron Copland - A Listener's Guide: Parallel Lives Series, No. 1                                   Their Lives and Their Music	Books	5	3	5	N	N	introduction to the music with a CD	Brief biographies of the two premier American composers are followed by tutorials on their music focusing on better-known, widely-aclaimed pieces. The guide succeeds in making the music accessible without dumbing it down at all or trying to popularize it. Felsenfeld is himself a composer and a music writer bringing to the task not only compatibility with Ives and Copland, but also an educator's understanding of the reader's position in wanting to learn more about them and enhance appreciation of their music. With the book is the treat of a CD offering ample samplings of music, including Copland's complete \\"Appalachian Spring\\" and four pieces of Ives', who wrote shorter, intense works. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R29MWF2TEKVO6U	1920691235	718670412	Future of Christianity: Historical, Sociological, Political and Theological Perspectives from New Zealand (ATF)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	different perspectives on Christianity in today's world	The circumstances, possibilities, and issues concerning Christianity in New Zealand are a microcosm of these elsewhere in the Western world. This multidisciplinary work aims to inform readers of perspectives and realities regarding contemporary Christianity not reflected or suggested in the popular media. Focus on certain anomalies is especially revealing, as well as to some degree predictive of Christianity's possible future depending on how these are resolved. Kevin Ward, a lecturer of Church issues in the modern world, explores how the \\"fragmentation and religious pluralism\\" in postmodernism not only limit and distort understanding of beliefs and developments in Christianity, but also shape strategies for Christians wishing to be a part of modern culture. \\"Believing Without Belonging\\" is part of the title of Ward's article. Another by Bruce Knox, Executive Director of Bible College in New Zealand, explores the apparent anomaly that \\"Christian Allegiance Is Declining, Yet Theological Education Is Booming.\\" The role of religion in shaping the New Zealand national identity, even as the nation was \\"set up more or less decisively independent of any denominational church influence,\\" is another relevant topic; while a couple of other articles take up political solutions for dealing with the desire of Christians to see their beliefs and values reflected more plainly in government policies and activity. The number of articles by theologians, historians, and sociologists, among others, with their fingers on the pulse of contemporary Christian situations and concerns offer a variety of views on the persistent matter of religion in contemporary life and current affairs. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R2ZTYZUMGQ6PE7	0804820945	975974773	Collecting Japanese Antiques	Books	5	28	29	N	N	lavish, comprehensive, informative antique guide	This is not your typical collector's handbook listing objects and possibly briefly describing them and listing going prices. This coffee-table quality book with the title \\"Collecting Japanese Antiques\\" is a survey of Japanese art works and cultural items with sections of advice for collectors. The historical and cultural background on the different items favors what would be of interest to collectors. But it is also informative and relevant simply for its artistic, historical, and cultural material. Readers looking for concentrated information on Japanese art and culture accompanied by attractive color photographs would find this work exceptionally suitable. For the collectors it is meant for particularly, there's sections on \\"Tides and Trends in Collecting,\\" guidance in developing collections of certain items (e. g., baskets), lists of artists, notable regions and schools for certain antiques, and especially desirable objects in certain categories. Seton also moves to the technical subjects of materials, production, and workmanship which are important for collectors not only in appreciating items and assessing their value, but in making a preliminary decision about their age and authenticity. Among Seton's 13 categories of antiques are screens and scrolls, ceramics, furniture, sculpture and metalwork, dolls, and tea ceremony utensils. Seton has lived in Japan since 1972, where he currently teaches Japanese art and poetry. In 1993, he founded the quarterly magazine \\"Daruma\\" to cover Japanese art and antiques; which he still edits. \\"Collecting Japanese Antiques\\" is a work any collector or lover of Japanese art and antique objects will want for sound education and easy reference, and at times for enjoyably looking at the numerous color photos of the varied Japanese objects. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R2OBY8Q8VR4D0B	0750657499	878720972	Pigment Compendium Set: Pigment Compendium: A Dictionary of Historical Pigments	Books	5	7	8	N	N	major reference for art historians, curators, collectors...	The authors' note right at the start of this encyclopedic work for art historians, conservators, and forensic specialists cites historic complaints that the names artists have recorded for the pigments they used in their paintings, frescoes, etc., are notoriously unreliable. Hence, the hundreds of cross-references to help researchers get to the pigment an artist used in a work despite what he or she may have called it. The reference also works from the standpoint of wishing to confirm a particular pigment by describing in detail its physical and chemical properties. This incomparable art reference for determining important matters of works of art goes beyond such scientific information to include as well historical notes on many of the pigments. The entry \\"Burnt Ochre\\" is an example of most of the thousands of entries: It begins with the general comment that the \\"phenomena that yellow ochre when heated converts to red ochre\\" has been known since pre-historic times. This is followed by a note that the fourth-century B. C. philosopher Theophrastus wrote a detailed description of the process of \\"producing burnt ochres.\\" Then comes the physical and chemical information--\\"The process in action is the thermal transformation of goethite...to iron(III) oxide, whereby the goethite begins to dehydrate...,\\" and so on for about 20 more lines. (The chemical equations in the quote are omitted in this review.) After this comes a few short paragraphs on comments later writers have made on burnt ochre, with the entry ending with remarks on the term for this pigment and related terms. The \\"Pigment Compendium\\" is an exhaustive, reliable guide to resolving important matters about works of art using pigments--matters which may involve accurate dating, and in some cases also involve large sums of money for museums or private collectors. Every museum, art library, and serious art collector should have a copy. <br />	2005-01-26
US	53067931	R21M4T2PB1T13U	0299199002	737995077	Cultured Force: Makers and Defenders of the French Colonial Empire	Books	5	5	6	N	N	assessment of top French colonial administrators	Singer and Langdon, both university professors, reassess French imperialism; which along with the imperialism of other Western nations, has been negatively portrayed in the colonial and postcolonial studies of recent decades. They do so through biographical and historical studies of key French proconsuls in French colonies in Africa and Asia. They do not try to make the simplistic point that French imperialism and colonialism was good, or even desirable. But they aim to balance the picture of this colonialism, and by extension all Western colonialism. While not trying to gloss over brutalities and atrocities committed by colonial masters, the authors note that colonialism also worked to \\"reduce feudal inequalities, abolish serfdom, establish constitutions, build roads...and extend educational opportunities.\\" This was seen by France--and other colonial powers--as \\"civilizing backward peoples.\\" But it could also be seen as raising the living standards of the inhabitants of the colonies. Shedding a light on French colonialism by biographically and analytically looking at the specific colonial officials of Thomas Robert Bugeaud of Algeria, Louis-Hubert-Gonzalve Lyautey of Southeast Asia, and others, the authors inject a human dimension, with all of its aspirations and faults, into the subject. This is a scholarly work which reads almost like history for the general reader for dealing with historical characters and seeing historical issues in terms of their personalities and actions. With its balanced, broader view of French colonialism, \\"Cultured Force\\" restores an ambiguity to its subject, thus making it a subject of true history and human enterprise rather than an ideological or myopic one.	2005-01-26
US	53067931	RR2S4ONK20EI2	1572333502	350033211	Smoking & Culture: The Archaeology of Tobacco Pipes in Eastern North America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	pipes and eastern Native Americans and European groups	From the eleven articles by anthropologists and archaeologists connected with universities, one finds that the Indian \\"peace pipe\\" familiar from numerous Western movies was but a small aspect of pipes in Native American culture. For example, there was also a \\"war pipe.\\". But the place of pipes in pre-Columbian and later Native American culture goes far beyond this as well. \\"\\"First, it must be kept in mind that smoking pipes are essentially drug delivery devices and that smoking instills varying degrees of altered consciousness.\\" In \\"no way utilitarian,\\" pipes are thus distinguished from other aboriginal artifacts; and from this way they are distinguished, they uniquely shed light on dimensions of spirituality, shamanistic practices, tribal social activities, inter-tribal relationships, and the history and movement of tribes. As seen by some of the latter essays, these social and anthropological matters relating to pipes found their way into different ethnic and regional groups of Europeans settling in eastern North America who adopted pipe smoking. Native American pipes were made of stone or wood; had different shapes; and sometimes included effigies of animals. All of these differences concern different purposes and occasions, or tell something about the history of the group respective pipes were related to. Rafferty is an associate professor of anthropology at SUNY-Albany; Mann is an archaeologist in Louisiana. Photographs, maps, and tables go with the text in this fetching subject. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R2UCAAS7EKZRKN	9622097030	418823900	An Annotated Bibliography of Chinese Film Studies	Books	5	1	2	N	N	extensive, state-of-the-art reference on Chinese film	Since the majority of the 2500 listings are Chinese publications, they are recorded in Chinese characters in the nine named sections, plus a tenth headed \\"Others\\" which includes miscellaneous material on film ads, copyrights, posters, and songs, among several other topic areas. Nonetheless, Cheng makes the voluminous bibliography as useful as possible for English readers while remaining faithful to the original Chinese names for the entries. Besides the Chinese characters, the Chinese titles are romanized, i. e., written as they would be spoken in Chinese by Westerners. Also, a closing \\"note\\" with nearly every one of the Chinese entries denotes the general contents of the publication. English, European, and other Asian publications make up a small percentage of the listings. The nine main sections are Reference Materials, Film History, Specific Film Genres, Film Reviews, Film Theory and Technique, Interdisciplinary Studies, Screenplays and Scripts, Film Technology, and lastly Film Directors, Producers, Actors, Actresses, Cinematographers, Critics, and Screenplay Writers. With each entry in these all-encompassing categories are \\"entry number, author, title, publication, ISBN, series title note, and language code.\\" The three indexes of subject, author, and title are also helpful to English-speaking students of Chinese film. This first volume of Cheng's ambitious, timely reference \\"covers materials--including monographs, conference proceedings, and theses--that relate to film studies in and about mainland China published between 1920-2003.\\" A forthcoming second volume will record materials relating to Hong Kong and Taiwan. Like Indian films, Chinese films are attracting considerable critical and audience interest in the U. S. This reference is an incomparable guide to the history and breadth of Chinese film studies, Chinese film production, and Chinese actors and filmmakers. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R3JXYQAJQATMY2	047211400X	273838412	Playing Underground: A Critical History of the 1960s Off-Off-Broadway Movement (Theater: Theory/Text/Performance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	social history of influential 1960s unconventional theater	Bottoms gives shape to the marginal field of \\"basement theaters, cafe theaters, hole-in-the-wall theaters, and theaters thriving on rough edges, raw passion, and a fierce sense of immediacy and 'liveness' of the stage event itself and of the audience\\" which sprang up in the 1960s along with the experimentation in other parts of the culture as well. A Professor in the Department of Theatre, Film, and Television Studies at the U. of Glascow, Bottoms sees the connection between this \\"off-off-Broadway\\" theater of the tumultuous and quixotic 1960s and today's popular entertainment. The raucousness of rock concerts, the brazenness of Janet Jackson's \\"wardrobe malfunction,\\" the provocative live performances, and rap lyrics all had precursors in the \\"illegitimate\\" theater of the 60s. Bottom's engaging work is both historical and critical. He cites the artistic and cultural sources while also bringing in the wider social milieu of the time. General themes and developments share space with activities and individuals connected with particular theaters and troupes. \\"Playing Underground\\" is a benchmark work of thorough research which goes into the social and political agendas of this theater scene while at the same time imparting its unconventional, often deliberately provocative and obscene, and in the long run, influential performance style. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R2ZIUQS821KMK8	0967460263	108555735	Mama, Can Armadillos Swim?	Books	5	1	1	N	N	introduction to many animals through how they swim	Children are introduced to 12 mammals through how they swim in water; with additional information on the animals in a section following the main text. On left-hand pages are realistic illustrations of the animals swimming or in their natural habitat near water. The right-hand pages have cartoon-like illustrations of the young boy asking the question about the animals while taking a bath and also illustrations of the different animals involved with the boy in the bath. The imaginative work for children ages 3-6 is an entertaining, humorous way for them to learn a little about a number of wild animals. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R1GBKRYAN1USMT	157233309X	991873326	Brigadier General Tyree H. Bell, C.S.A.: Forrest'S Fighting Lieutenant	Books	5	16	17	N	N	biography of Confederate general in Western theater of War	The solid military biography follows Bell's advance in the Confederate Army from captain of a company of Tennessee Volunteers to brigadier general who was regarded as Nathan Forrest's \\"right arm.\\" Bell's own exceptional military capabilities and leadership have been largely overshadowed by being a part of the exploits of the better-known and more colorful Forrest. But Hughes, author of previous books on lesser-known aspects and figures of the Confederate military, demonstrates these qualities of Bell by detailing activities such a troop placements, probing maneuvers, assaults and defenses, terrain, and the involvement of key officers of the opposing sides in numerous engagements of all sizes Bell was involved in. Bell was active mostly in Tennessee, Kentucky, and Mississippi. The biography has a personal touch concerning Bell with the participation of Moretti and Browne, descendants of his. The journeyman military biography not only establishes the place of Bell in the military activities of the Confederacy in an area of its western theater, but is also an account of the conflict in this area. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R26W98CZ1WILS8	1589802462	229776003	Zydeco Shoes: A Sensory Tour of Cajun Culture	Books	4	2	2	N	N	introduction to colorful Cajun culture	Music on a CD, recipes, anecdotes, and most of all, Earl Hebert's vibrantly-colored illustrations convey the tone, energy, and distinctiveness of Louisiana's cajun culture. The full-page illustrations in this oversize book make readers feel that they are practically participating in the scenes of dancing, music playing, and socializing. The book and CD are packaged in an eye-catching, brightly colored slipcase. The different parts combine together for a celebration of this widely-known regional culture. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R2GHXLD1X5YTOK	0295984554	185781482	The Martyrs of Karbala: Shi'i Symbols and Rituals in Modern Iran	Books	5	6	8	N	N	the place of religion in Shi'i Islam culture	The Shi'i branch of Islam makes up only about 15 percent of the religion. But counting for nearly the entire population of Iran and 60 percent of Iraq's, the Shi'i have a crucial influence on Middle East and world affairs from their numbers in these strategically important countries. A professor of Islamic and Iranian history at the U. of Texas-Austin, Aghaie gives a view of Shi'i culture in Iran that is eye-opening and germane for Western readers. Basically, one sees that for the Shi'i there is no clear, or even worthwhile, distinction between religion and other aspects of society, including most significantly government. Whereas such a distinction is a part of the foundation of the U. S. and other democracies, Shi'i culture was founded with the defeat of the Prophet Mohammad's grandson Hoseyn and the massacre of his family by the caliph Yazidin in the 680AD battle of Karbala. Shi'i religious ceremonies, motives for behavior, social purposes, and community goals grew out of this defeat. A special intensity and commitment, as well as sacrifice, was called for so Islam as expressed by Mohammad and his descendants would not be lost. This branch of Islam faith is distinguished from that reflected in the institutional rule of the caliphs came about throughout most of the Middle East. Aghaie's subject is the relationship between Iranian leaders from the Qajars of the 19th and early 20th century through the Shah of Iran to today's Islamic Republic and the symbols and rituals of Shiism. The Shah of Iran was overturned in a revolution because in an effort to modernize Iran, he sought to minimize the symbols and rituals. The work brings an insight into the Shi'i culture that is timely and germane considering current events in Iran and Iraq and U. S. ambitions to institute democracy in this area. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R2AX1Q34R838Z4	0720612187	671735163	Passport to Yesterday	Books	4	3	3	N	N	comic, poignant novel by Russian author	Oleg Nemets' situation resembles that of the situation of the new Russia, his homeland. Oleg's unexplained loss of his father in World War II is the experience everything centers on; as similarly, Russia has been abruptly cut off from its historical and ideological pasts. Both Oleg and Russia find themselves in a new world with little from the past to guide them. Oleg takes to art. He becomes an exceptional violin player who travels the world, living in San Francisco after a while. But his art, no matter how much he puts into it and how successful he is with it, does not bring a complete satisfaction to him. Rather, because of it, he is drawn back to Russia, the source of the sense of loss he cannot overcome. This underlies the main character's situation. But Druzhnikov does not dwell on it in a heavy way. Oleg is a bright, energetic, hopeful character whose attempts to bring past and present together are dealt with in a spirited and often comic way. Dialogue is occasionally zany, characters eccentric, and Oleg's thoughts ad observations clever and witty. Author Druzhnikov is a best-selling Russian author who has gained international notice and is currently a Professor of Russian Literature at the U. of California-Davis. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	RSJYSDXR6KAIA	1400041759	607262102	De Kooning: An American Master	Books	5	5	7	N	N	multi-dimensional biography of the leading modern artist	De Kooning arrived in America from Holland as a stowaway in 1926. The rest is art history. This voluminous, multi-dimensional biography follows the trajectory of the life of this leading 20th-century artist from impoverished immigrant through Greenwich Village libertine and rising artist to his move to Long Island and his position at the pinnacle of the art world and eventual dementia-afflicted decline in his last years. Relating de Kooning's friendships with other artists, relationships with women, course in the lively, avant-garde New York City art world of mid-century, the development of his artistry, and his lasting influence on modern art, the biography reflects not only all facets of the artist's life, but also the art scene and a good deal of the society of the period. And it offers vignettes of many notable artists, critics, art gallery owners, and such. With regular quotes from de Kooning's writings and other documents, photographs of him at different times of his life and at work, and illustrations of works of art, including a 16-page section of works in color, Stevens and Swan's book imparts an incomparable, memorable picture of de Kooning. The reader comes to comprehend de Kooning as an individual and also the reasons for his unmistakable influence. Both authors are art critics connected with leading periodicals. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R20KL5D0H3PBCD	1932595058	29416003	Sin-A-Rama: Sleaze Sex Paperbacks of the Sixties	Books	5	9	10	N	N	colorful, informative survey of popular paperbacks	The countless lurid, sexually suggestive pictures of the covers of the mass-market paperbacks of the decade of the 1960s are what cannot help but attract the most attention. But there's more to this retrospective than the sensationalistic covers for enthusiasts of popular culture and paperback book collectors. An inside view of the \\"sleaze paperback\\" industry of the time is recounted in essays by four writers; one of whom spent some time in jail for peddling [...]. Passages from some of the books illustrate the genre's elliptical, yet unmistakable style for dealing with the sexual subjects and scenes so the books could get by the [...] censorship. The hundreds of paperbacks identified by their covers with author, publisher, and artist in the caption are divided into main categories appealing to readers of different backgrounds and sexual fantasies. \\"Sick Suburb,\\" \\"Butch Swish,\\" and \\"Sin Revue\\" are some of these. Another feature beyond the pictures is 15 interviews with writers in the field. A listing of the publishers, an index of pseudonyms used by most of the writers working in the genre, and a second index of the authors real names followed by their pseudonyms are found in the back matter. All in all, a copious collection of a vein of book cover art which also has material on the genre as an area of popular culture flourishing in the 1960s and influencing the culture's regard of sexual matter and treatment of it in following decades.	2004-12-25
US	53067931	RVR8UNFWPKGRE	0521830893	592616183	Edith Wharton and the Politics of Race (Cambridge Studies in American Literature and Culture)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	racial issues inherent in Edith Wharton's writings	Edith Wharton is not ordinarily associated with racial issues. But using ideas from feminist literary criticism, Kassanoff finds in Wharton's characters, circumstances, and story lines racial concerns of the comfortable white urban society of the early 1900s. Mixed in with Wharton's wry, sometimes jaundiced, picture of the self-satisfied upper-level white society are \\"a host of early twentieth-century white patrician anxieties [about race].\\" This anxiety was not aroused by blacks only. It was broader than garden-variety racial prejudice; and vague and protean, as an anxiety would be. Wharton's characters are uneasy about all foreigners, or immigrants, and the growth in the population of the lower classes. They uneasily sensed their own \\"race suicide\\" if they could not come up with a means to preserve their own position. Kassanoff explores the various artful ways explicit, subtle, and ambiguous that Wharton recurringly expresses such anxieties in her works. While concentrating on Wharton's writings, the author occasionally makes references to politicians, social scientists, and the like of the period to illuminate Wharton's sources and motives. Kassanoff sees that in the end Wharton was not despairing nor contemptuous of democratic society, whatever changes it might bring; but became convinced in her long artistic jousting with the racial anxieties of her peers \\"that in democracy's inclusiveness lay the promise of America's future.\\" The author of this enlightening critique of Wharton that has aspects of a cultural study while being mainly a literary critique is an associate professor of English at Barnard College. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R8L7Z5KSGGYLY	0762729635	972205158	Mixed Climbing (How To Climb Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	manual for serious rock and mountain climbers	Mixed climbing--or M-climbing as it is known to experienced climbers--is the most challenging, most hazardous kind of rock and mountain climbing. It involves climbing over mixed surfaces such as sheer rock face, the undersides of rock outcroppings, or icy patches in any weather conditions. This is a complete manual to this type of climbing by an expert, award-winning climber. Isaac covers equipment, techniques, safety, and exercises for preparation for the incomparable physical demands called for in mixed climbing. Each of these areas includes sharp photographs, including many especially instructive close-ups. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	RF3I92VT8K75R	0873515102	716032663	Boosters, Hustlers, and Speculators: Entrepreneurial Culture and the Rise of Minneapolis and St. Paul, 1849-1883	Books	5	5	6	N	N	business history of Minneapolis-St. Paul in 1800s	The year 1849 was when Minnesota became a state; 1883 was the year the Northern Pacific Railroad celebrated the completion of its link between Minneapolis-St. Paul and the West coast. In between these years, the historically closely tied cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul grew from a \\"collection of huts and shanties\\" to a major national and international center of commerce. With the phone system, up-to-date plumbing, and electricity the cities brought in in the latter 1800s, they began to more and more resemble other major American cities. Wills meticulously follows the rapid growth of the two cities by focusing on the activity of the most important individuals in the area of commerce and the economy. She is methodical and complete in describing their outsized activities and the results of these, for the most part passing over their personalities and personal lives. Even the author's notes over 40 pages are worth going through for the facts and comments found in many. Wills is an assistant professor of history at Brooklyn College, CUNY. What her book lacks in color, it more than makes up for in substance and thoroughness. It's the fundamental economic history on Minneapolis and St. Paul in the middle decades of the 19th century. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R237PVU9RYLA8F	0814630189	635221234	Faith That Dares to Speak	Books	4	27	31	N	N	importance of lay persons in Catholic Church troubles	Cozzens, a priest who is also a writer, understands that the crisis facing the Catholic Church because of the wide-ranging sexual abuse scandals bears on the \\"sacramental character of the church; its mission of liberation in the 'way of Jesus'; the role of the laity and particularly the role of women; the future of the ministry; [and] the church's structures.\\" He concentrates on the conscience and work of lay persons in trying to amend the problems that allowed for the abuse. Cozzens does not go much into practical or administrative recommendations for responding to the calls by lay persons for changes in the Catholic Church. He writes about the appropriateness and desirability of the ideas and role lay persons are calling for. Such lay persons appear more than any others to be affected by the scandalous behavior of many priests and concerned about the future of the Catholic Church and the spirituality it professes to embody. The author is a respected and compelling voice for the value of the  substantive involvement of lay persons in overcoming the church's troubles. <br />	2004-12-25
US	53067931	R3EG9FMBRUY9ID	1932127305	789927553	Grant Writing for Educators: Practical Strategies for Teachers, Administrators, and Staff (Solutions)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	How-to guide for educators in applying for grants	Browning gained her lengthy experience in grant-writing mostly in the field of education aiding school systems to obtain grants for various purposes. The three preliminary questions one has to ask before pursuing specific grants are where is the money? what format does the funding agency require for applying for a grant? and thirdly, just what has to be written to attract serious interest and give one a good chance of getting the grant? Then Browning elaborates on these basics in a user-friendly style advising grant applicants how to follow through on the process of identifying, assessing, and applying for the particular grant. A to-the-point handbook worth the attention of anyone involved in the competitive task of seeking a grant.  <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	RTZ9LIH3DDIHL	157467093X	312497020	Polly And The Piano With CD	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Pianist's pet dog figures into the coming performance	Polly is a dog who becomes involved in her owner's desire to play a piano concert at Carnegie. The story is told by Polly from her perspective. Polly's \\"most unusual doghouse in the world\\" is under the piano, where she is close up to her owner giving piano lessons and practicing Bach, Mozart, and Brahms in the hope of appearing in Carnegie Hall one day. Then the day comes when the pianist does play in Carnegie Hall--bringing Polly with her, who sits under the piano just as she has for so long in the pianist's home when she was teaching and practicing. The author is an accomplished performer for solos and chamber music. A nearly hour-long CD of piano performances of hers comes with the children's book for ages three to six. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R3TWCYKK7Z8MVR	184331150X	163654852	Victorian Sensation: Or the Spectacular, the Shocking and the Scandalous in Nineteenth-Century Britain (Anthem Nineteenth-Century Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Popular culture in VIctorian times	As in our own day, with the press's prolific growth in Victorian times, it turned to the infinite phenomena of popular culture to sustain itself. And as in our own day, this was tied in with the curiosity and voyeurism of the public for sensationalistic stories about crimes, celebrities, politicians, royalty and other public figures, including their scandalous sexual improprieties. Such stories found their way into public entertainment as well, primarily the stage. Diamond does not so much critique the Victorian press and stage, but goes into the cultural milieu for the stories and describes how they were treated in the press and in some cases on stage. In doing so, he brings the perspective of contemporary media studies and cultural studies to his varied subjects. \\"Dickens' 'Oliver Twist'...would have been called a 'sensational novel', had the term existed then.\\" If the names of the persons in the stories and their dates were changed, one would hardly be able to distinguish them from ones found in today's media. Diamond abundantly evidences that the public and the media it supported in the supposed straight-laced English Victorian culture was not essentially different from today's. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1FUDDJDZIS5A9	0762730951	431248550	Speed Climbing!: How To Climb Faster And Better (How To Climb Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Expert advice for rock and mountain climbing	In this second edition, the professional climber and record-holder Florine and the experienced amateur Wright add refinements to their combined, incomparable knowledge about rock and mountain climbing. There's instruction and techniques for \\"simul-climbing\\" (climbing with a partner) and solo climbing. Illustrations vary from photographs of climbers enjoying the sport to detailed diagrams of crucial aspects of techniques and safety measures. The two authors bring in the challenges and exhilarations of climbing while also pointing out its hazards and stressing precautions to follow for safety. An expert manual by experienced climbers. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	ROKE063JI8XR4	9074822681	956919071	Visions of Japan	Books	4	50	57	N	N	Introduction to leading 20th-century Japan printmaker	One hundred woodblock prints of the 20th-century Japanese artist Hasui are cataloged in bright colors on large pages roughly 9\\" x 11\\". Captions for the hundred are grouped following the prints. With annotations which are comments by Hasui on the particular print or informative remarks by Narazaki Munishige, editor of a book on the artist's prints, the captions are instructive. Instructive too are two introductory essays by Kendall H. Brown. The first is on the Japanese cultural sources of Hasui's prints; the second focuses on Hasui's life and art. The succinct text with the appealing pictures of numerous prints offers an ideal introduction to and sampling of the woodblock prints by this outstanding Japanese artist who is regarded as one of the primary artists of the 20th-century Japanese art movement known as \\"New prints\\" (Shin-hanga).	2004-11-29
US	53067931	RE5CDZTJU5FIP	1885008260	682295293	The Wishing Tree	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Story based on Chinese custom	The boy Ming is disappointed in the wishing tree introduced to him by his grandmother when the tree fails to give him his wish that his aged grandmother survive her illness. But after a time when he does not go to it anymore, he comes near it again when a group of friends invite him to go with them. In talking with his friends and a nearby vendor, Ming realizes that the tree granted his grandmother's greatest wish for him--that he be happy. The simple tale is based on a real tree in a village in Hong Kong. The author Thong with bright pictures by McLennan describe how the Chinese write their wishes on pieces of paper, and toss these into the branches of the tree. Following the tale, the author gives directions on how young readers can follow this practice for themselves with their own wishing tree. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R316J6F0DOHY24	097409093X	530843428	The Commandrine and Other Poems	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Comical poems about gap between hopes and reality	The title poem is a 15-page verse play of nine scenes that is like a comical Moby Dick with the nonsensical, yet evocative, repartee of a Samuel Beckett play. The source of McSweeney's poems is a comic energy and skewed eye. The brief poem \\"Bugs Bunny, Or, The Mirror That Held a Little Camera,\\" beings, \\"I'm rundown. I've got a sunburn. These ears are my liability but they hold a lot....\\" Even when the comic style abates at times when a somber subject is raised, the language remains sharp and inventive, as in \\"Youth Image\\" where the poet writes, \\"One bus and then another passed with unresolving traffic of weird angles, logos,/a world that wouldn't math up....\\" <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R2AVEZSGMV0QWU	1592285325	169926724	The 100-Year Secret: Britain's Hidden World War II Massacre	Books	4	4	4	N	N	British blunder in World War II	Jacobs (d. 2004) was a part of the awful World War II episode written about--namely, the bombing of ships filled with Jewish concentration camp victims trying to flee from Germany in the closing days of World War II. Pool, a graduate of Harvard, is a writer and English teacher. The episode took place in the Baltic Sea. Jacobs' account moves smoothly from experiences of him and his brother, including their separation and eventual reunion, to the larger picture of how the Jews from the camps came to be on the boats, were caught between the desperate Germans and the advancing British Armies (with the possibility the Germans meant to sink the boats once they were at sea), and British Royal Air Force operations and decisions which led to the bombing of the ships and deaths of more than 7,000 persons. Jacobs and Pool lean toward the position that the \\"R. A. F. sacrificed the prisoners\\" in its effort to prevent German officials from escaping by sea to Denmark or Sweden. The authors see the British government's sealing of records relating to the episode until 2045 as lending support to this deduction. This tragic WWII episode is not unknown, and questions about it have been previously raised. But these two authors give the most thorough account of it. Jacob's first-hand experiences and the authors' inspection of the limited official and historical records which are available make this work stand out. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R2B921NKMWVAZB	0937426644	682333966	Japan & Paris: Impressionism, Postimpressionism, and the Modern Era	Books	5	8	8	N	N	European modernist painting and Japan	The aim of the Honolulu exhibition of Western and Japanese paintings was to \\"explore the history of collecting French painting in Japan...and the impact of early European modernism on Japan's painting traditions.\\" The European modernism influenced Japan's traditions mostly through Japanese collectors rather than independent curiosity on the part of the painters, or contact with Western painters. This exhibition catalog is organized to efficiently educate readers on this little-covered influence. Individual paintings by Western and Japanese painters are dealt with with a picture and facing one-page analysis from the perspective of the exhibition's focus. Among the Western painters are Rouault, Matisse, Monet, and the lesser-known French artists Raphael Collin and Jean-Jacques Henner. Morita Tsunetomo, Wada Eisaku, and Kume Keiichiro are among the Japanese artists. It's interesting to see, once it is brought to light by the analyses, the Western modernist influence on the Japanese paintings. New light is shed on both modern European and Japanese art.	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R2X8DJO75ORFYR	1591430267	906095380	The Toltec Oracle	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Background and practice of Toltec divination for today	Sanchez gives instruction for using the 35 cards with the folded chart with a place called \\"Heart\\" in the middle and places for the body, mind, emotions, and spirit in the four corners. Book, cards, and chart are neatly packaged in a colorful slipcase. Toltec religious and mythological figures are pictured on the cards. In addition to giving directions on use of the cards for an astrology-like reading of one's personality and future, Sanchez gives an overview of the Toltec spiritual principles such as dualism and interconnected fields of energy that their use is meant to incorporate. Sanchez is an anthropologist living in central Mexico, the area of the ancient Toltecs. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R2UWQ25EZJSSHM	0814658296	792531504	Women at the Table: Three Medieval Theologians	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Influential women saints in medieval theology	The three medieval women theologians are St. Margaret of Scotland, St. Leoba of Saxony, and St. Radegunde of Gaul. Mayeski, a professor of historical theology at Loyola Marymount U. in Los Angeles, studies biographies of the three written by contemporaries of theirs for a comprehension of the relationship between the theological thoughts and teachings of the women saints and theological issues concerning the Catholic Church during their lifetimes. As the author finds, it is significant not only that the women were chosen as subjects by leading biographers of their age. But individuals were chosen for biographies because of their value in reinforcing the position of the Church and elucidating its doctrines. The biographies of the medieval women saints were meant to be instructive on theological matters and religious virtues. But while the women patently made a significant impression on their contemporaries, their theological contributions were not recognized in following eras of Church growth and theological development. By examining original biographical and historical sources, Mayeski persuasively makes the point that the three women theologians stood out as spiritual leaders to their contemporaries; and thus there was a greater feminine influence on the Church in its early period than is ordinarily recognized or acknowledged. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1F3QFY5QXT5SE	0820326585	814169473	Atlas of the Civil War, Month by Month: Major Battles and Troop Movements	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Engaging reference to follow course of Civil War	The scope of the 50 primary maps is virtually the complete theater of the Civil War lasting roughly four years--from the shifting northern boundary in Virginia and the Washington, D.C. area to the Gulf Coast, from North and South Carolina to Missouri and roughly the middle of Texas in the West. Each of the monthly maps identifies Union and Confederate positions and respective troop and cavalry movements and naval movements; clashes of all sizes, including notable skirmishes; and the front lines over the large area as these shifted month-by-month throughout the War. Thus, one can readily follow the overall strategies and activities of each side, as well as developments in particular areas. On left-hand pages facing the full-page maps are details relating to what is identified in the maps. For example, the partisan disturbance in Alabama signified in the August 1863 map is noted as \\"a band of deserters known as 'Jim Ward's Raiders' [operating] out of the Pea River Swamp south of Elba.\\" In relation to the map for September 1863, the annotation for North Carolina cites that Longstreet's soldiers passing through Raleigh sacked the offices of the pro-Union, pro-peace newspaper the \\"Standard.\\" Besides following the War with the succession of maps, the Civil War buff and military historian also learns many little-known incidents and circumstances from the annotations. Several secondary maps after the main ones record military activities in the Southwest, including the lower half of California and the western part of the Texas. The large-size reference is an ideal accompaniment to any book, movie, TV program, newspaper article, etc. on the Civil War to put its subject in context. And it also stands on its own as a clear, engaging overview of the Civil War. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	RP7S8IUMNMOZH	1929653646	379789775	Sleepwalker	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Signed limited edition for fantasy buffs, collector's item	In this latest signed limited edition work from the publisher Delerium specializing in regularly bringing such valued books to fantasy literature fans, Richard Sparke has disturbing dreams about his dead mother and daughter. The dreams carry over into his waking life, so that the line between dreaming and reality becomes blurred. He seeks help for this from the psychologist Dr. Marcus Delany; who tells Richard \\"lucid dreaming\\" is the professional terminology for his disturbing experiences, even though Delany is not able to cure him of them. Richard's girlfriend Pamela tries to help him too, with her \\"portable time-trip unit.\\" But the unit brings only a mixed blessing--giving Richard some relief and deeper understanding of what is happening to him, but not able to free him from his \\"lucid dreaming.\\" In this state where borders between different zones dissolve, a homeless man becomes Richard's double--setting the stage for the existence of only one of them. In Laimo's skilled hands, these varied elements make for a spellbinding tale. Laimo is familiar to fantasy-literature buffs as the author of previous novels and story collections and the Bram Stoker Award-nominated \\"Atmosphere.\\" <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R3HF1370J0EZ7N	1592284426	885434935	The Frozen Coast: Sea Kayaking the Antarctic Peninsula	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Antarctic adventure journal with spellbinding photos	The trio of authors are New Zealanders, with Charles the photographer. With the journalist Moodie, they do a journal of their incredible kayak trip around the Antarctic Peninsula jutting out toward South America. Charles's dramatic photos shift back and forth between shots of the kayaking and camping, and the forbidding, rugged, yet entrancing Antarctic landscape. The journal records the hardships and satisfactions on the challenging trip. The section \\"Equipment\\" following the text and photos lists the varied gear and supplies needed for the trip--which list in itself testifies to the uniqueness of the physical challenge and the hardships the kayakers had to overcome by careful preparation, ingenuity, and determination. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1JO0MDRICH1KI	9074822738	701385542	Printed to Perfection: Twentieth Century Japanese Prints from the Robert O. Muller Collection	Books	4	19	26	N	N	Review of Japanese prints of noted collector	Displayed in a large-size, high-quality trade paper volume are over 100 prints from the collection of the noted collector Robert O. Muller (d. 2003) which have been bequeathed to the Sackler Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution. Besides the artist, name, and date for each print, there are informative annotations on the career of the artist and the subject and style of the print. Most of the prints are in the 20th-century Japanese style of \\"shin-hanga binga,\\" whose artists were \\"struggling to acknowledge tradition and at the same time transcend it.\\" Introductory essays cover Muller as an influential collector and place the prints in the context of Japanese artistic traditions. The varied aspects of the text, including a \\"Glossary,\\" provide a historical overview of Japanese prints as well as a representative catalog of prints from the Muller collection of more than four thousand. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1V5N1H7VDGZCS	0932633595	460336572	Hiring The Best Knowledge Workers, Techies & Nerds: The Secrets & Science Of Hiring Technical People	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Comprehensive, timely manual for technology sector	In this comprehensive, detailed handbook, Rothman recognizes what employers have to do to be able to attract the best technical workers. It's not enough simply to advertise for job openings, but the technical work has to be properly described to attract the right kind of prospective employees. Otherwise, the hiring process will be inefficient, murky, and errant. Reviewing resumes, screening potential candidates for interviews and preparing for these, and conducting an interview are other topics. A consultant to technical firms, Rothman also goes into a personal touch with individuals looking for employment which gives them a favorable impression of the company. This is desirable because a company might want to hire an applicant at a future time; and it creates a favorable image of the company among technical workers. This specialized hiring manual is timely considering the present pick-up in activity in the technology sector of the economy. Many technology companies have to start now preparing to hire new technical workers to be able to capitalize on the opportunities shaping up. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1BKE7GXT43PC8	1555536190	839855957	Designing MIT: Bosworth's New Tech	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The architecture of modern MIT	continue to be seen as a lackluster urban university scattered among classrooms, office buildings, and dormitories in Boston's Back Bay section. The architect chosen for this unprecedented, highly-visible, and risky large-scale architectural undertaking was William Welles Bosworth, a MIT graduate in architecture recommended by John D. Rockefeller. Yet, Bosworth continually had to reckon with the influence of other prominent architects who had put forth their own visionary plans. Among these were Ralph Adams Cram, who had designed West Point's campus; Steven Child, a student of Frederick Law Olmstead; and the chairman of MIT's Dept. of Architecture, Desire Despradelle. Jarzombek tells the story of how Bosworth managed to remain true to his own plans rooted in his neoclassicism while accommodating the ideas of other architects and the preferences of the powerful patrons. This complex, historic project is followed with plentiful old photographs and architectural drawings from MIT's archives. The author, a professor in MIT's Dept. of Architecture, gives equal treatment to the diverse individuals who had a role in the shaping of the project, the architectural concepts of the time, and Bosworth's work and resolutions of issues along the way. Needless to say, the architectural project succeeded in putting MIT into the forefront of U. S. science and engineering universities. And Bosworth's cluster of impressive buildings continues to play a central role in MIT's staying in this position. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1M6Z6FLTRM68E	0820324752	897383059	Shapers of Southern History: Autobiographical Reflections	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Memoirs of Southern historians	Fifteen historians known for their work in Southern history connected with universities around the U. S. respond to the editor Boles proposition that they write essays on the relationship between their earlier lives and their eventual work as historians. As Boles put it in his letter to them, he was asking them to \\"think autobiographically and ponder what in your background and life experiences helped determine you to become a historian of the South.\\" Material could embrace education, mentors, decisions, and successes and rejections. Boles is a history professor at Rice U. and managing editor of the \\"Journal of Southern History.\\" The fifteen historians responded openly and thoughtfully. The essays are engaging for their personal tones as well as how the work of any historian is prompted and molded by his or her penchants, experiences, and mentors and associates. Drew Faust, from Harvard, begins his essay \\"Living History,\\" with, \\"We create ourselves out of the stories we tell about our lives....\\" Pete Daniel, on the other hand, in \\"Accidental Historian,\\" begins, \\"Nothing in my family suggested that I would become a historian.\\" The varied personal paths into the discipline evidence why history is so informative and germane. It is because identity and memories are bound into it that it is able to speak about human affairs. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R3LB14PFESR7YL	0823002845	398693020	Art Deco New York	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The panoply of New York City's Art Deco era	Garrard revives the restless, utopian, sensationalistic mood of the 1920s and '30s giving rise to the inimitable Art Deco style not only by pointing to buildings and their design features representing the style, but also by including posters, advertising, architectural drawings, furniture, and varied aspects of popular culture. The author evokes an understanding of Art Deco not mainly by discussion of aesthetics or art criticism, but by immersion in the spirit of the time between the World Wars, frequently with bountiful and in many cases, unfamiliar visual matter. The Empire State Building and Paul Manship's sculpture of Prometheus ringed by signs of the zodiac in Rockefeller Center are familiar Art Deco images, if often taken for granted. But designs of rooms, architectural details of buildings, trains and cars, and magazine covers and clothing fashion are often overlooked. Garrard demonstrates how deeply--thoroughly--Art Deco pervaded the culture; and points to elements of this vibrant, short-lived cultural period which continue. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R1MZLAZARHM5L5	0881926507	583393103	Garden Plants of Japan	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Illustratred Encyclopedic Guide to Japanese Plants	Visually appealing with its hundreds of bright color photographs and encyclopedic in its scope and content, this reference also has the clarity of organization and practicality of a garden handbook. Each of the listings of the hundreds of Japanese plants gives notes on appearance, cultivation, and use (e. g., ground cover, attractive spring flowers, potted plant) of the particular plant along with the Japanese and English names, interesting points, and related plants. As noted in the Foreword by E. Charles Nelson, the Japanese, with their insular culture, had no desire to go abroad seeking foreign plants--nor did they need to with the variety available in their homeland. Yet American gardeners and others readily took to Japanese plants when Japan opened up to the West, and continue to do so increasingly in recent years. This attractive, complete, useful reference fully satisfies an interest in the variety of Japanese plants. Both authors have extensive backgrounds and solid reputations in horticulture. <br />	2004-11-29
US	53067931	R2TWUX01P55XGR	184430115X	224168913	Cheeses Of The World: A Season by Season Guide To Buying, Storing and Serving	Books	5	34	35	N	N	all about cheeses with great color photos	Numerous cheeses are dealt with according to the season when they are made, with mention of why the particular season is the right time. The four major sections contain general material and information on the specific cheeses of the season. Color photographs of varying sizes from double-page and full-page to smaller complement the entertaining and informative text. The photographs of particular cheeses are not only appealing, but also make for a useful illustrated buying guide. Back matter includes a section on \\"1,200 cheeses from around the world\\" where the countless cheeses are grouped by family--e. g., The Chaource family, The Parmesan family. The majority of the cheeses are French, with cheeses from other European countries included also. Barthelemy is a cheese supplier who also has a hand in the ripening of cheeses. Sperat-Czar is editor-in-chief of the magazine \\"L'Amateur de Fromage.\\" The photos are taken by photographers with backgrounds in high-quality, glossy general-interest and gastronomic magazines. \\"Cheeses of the World\\" is a work of an encyclopedic range with a focus on the enjoyment of cheese and background such as the making of cheese which can add to this enjoyment. Anyone from the long-time cheese lover to novice will learn something from it and consult it regularly as a guide in exploring the world of cheeses. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R11SPMH0MZK09Q	0871272644	293526181	The Nutcracker Backstage: The Story and the Magic	Books	4	3	3	N	N	backstage view of ballet production	The authors of \\"A Parents Guide to Ballet\\" focus on Tchaikovsky's timeless ballet the \\"Nutcracker\\" which has delighted generations of children and parents. This book is for both children and parents about what goes into putting on a rewarding performance of the \\"Nutcracker.\\" In this, it familiarizes children with auditions, costuming, professional and volunteer production staff, and staging if they should be interested in becoming involved in ballet. The mostly inherent, but occasionally explicit guidance for parents is how they can help children become involved. Bright color photos capture dramatic and colorful scenes from the play; while others equally as bright capture the varied behind-the-scenes activities. Tchaikovsky's music is briefly discussed to round out this introduction to the ballet. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	RTBK4EWDYLTFP	0199273634	752951274	Castles in Medieval Society: Fortresses in England, France, and Ireland in the Central Middle Ages	Books	5	4	4	N	N	detailed view of place of castles in European society	Coulson seeks to revise the understanding of castles as basically military structures to an understanding of them as images of the primary factors and the complexity of European society in the time from the fall of Rome to the late Middle Ages. This society was basically hierarchical and aristocratic. Today's conventional conception of a castle as more or less a fortification is a largely romantic notion bearing little relation to the true place of castles in medieval society. In medieval Europe, towns, ecclesiastical areas, estates and mansions, and even temporary earthworks of a traveling army were regarded as castles. The word \\"fortalicium\\" originally used for \\"castle\\" meant \\"element\\" or \\"sign\\" of fortification more than strictly a military fortification. In the medieval society, this was understood to mean above all \\"a symbolism of aristocratic armed power.\\" As symbols of this power, castles were also social centers where most of the interaction of the different social classes took place. As Coulson remarks, there is no military history associated with most castles. In his revision of the conception of castles, the author elaborates on the presence of high-rankng women in many of them. Coulson is a research fellow at England's U. of Kent. He does not undercut the significance of castles in medieval society; rather, he shifts the understanding of what their significance was. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R1JWVQFZBP05KK	0895873028	553101067	The Jamestown Adventure: Accounts of the Virginia Colony, 1605-1614 (Real Voices, Real History)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	early Jamestown from all perspectives	The 20 collected writings relating to the English colony of Jamestown in Virginia, the first English settlement in America, are arranged chronologically from 1605 to 1614. This covers the time just before the arrival of the first colonists on three ships to the marriage of John Rolfe and Pocahontas. The variety of historical documents collected by the editor, a graduate of Wake Forest U., brings out the many sides of the venture of Jamestown. The struggle of the first colonists and mysteries surrounding the fate of some of them are the usual focus of the Jamestown colony. But besides these familiar subjects, Southern includes in this anthology Spanish documents evidencing concern over the colony; English papers voicing the interests and worries of investors; and references by Shakespeare to Jamestown.	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R1UYM0PIDS86GF	081302739X	140624298	Florida's Lost Tribes	Books	5	9	9	N	N	the many ancient Native American tribes of Florida	The middle section is a gallery of the artist Morris's realistic colorful paintings of members of different tribes of Florida's Native Americans in daily activities in natural settings. In the paintings, their clothing and in some cases the dwellings and weapons, utensils, and other objects are shown. Below each of the many paintings, Morris tells about its subject; the activity pictured as a part of the broader society, including in some cases its historical reference; and details such as feathers for ornament or material of pieces of clothing. The text of the book is anthropological and historical material on Florida's number of tribes. Readers will find there were more than the Seminoles who became known mainly for their conflict against the U. S. in the 1800s. Both the paintings and the text cover Florida's tribes from pre-Columbian times to today. With Milanich's text relating all sorts of interesting facts about varied tribes in a readable style and Morris's bright pictures  <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R3AO2I9N269VG4	1555952429	360194475	Lawrence C. Goldsmith: A Life in Watercolor	Books	5	25	26	N	N	overview of watercolotist's life and paintings	Goldsmith has been painting his watercolors since he graduated from Yale in the 1930s after studying under the noted watercolorist Eliot O'Hara. His travels to the Caribbean, Central America, and Southeast Asia after graduation infused his characteristic paintings done mostly in Maine and Vermont with a use of color both deft and delicate and an almost calligraphic sense of line and organization. Carl Little's title \\"Passion of Place\\" for his Introduction refers especially to Goldsmith's use of color. As Little notes, Goldsmith's paintings are essentially evocative rather than representational even though scenes are recognizable in them. Drawn early in his career to Turner's watercolor sketches, Goldsmith himself allows this. Winslow Homer and Andrew Wyeth are other detectable, but indirect influences. All but a few of the 62 full-page, full-color plates were done after 1990, Goldsmith's mature period when his distinctive, absorbing style was fully developed. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R3BEA5BFHVZH69	1888375361	622071797	Journeying East: Conversations of Aging and Dying	Books	4	8	8	N	N	interviews with spiritual leaders	Dimidjian found that four themes stood out in interviews she had with recognized spiritual leaders during her sabbatical from teaching. These are: interest in the subject of aging is growing as the Baby-Boom generation, to which the author belongs, ages; the integration of ideas from Eastern and Western cultures is continuing to grow; living and dying are intertwined; and lastly, what we \\"know\\" is never complete and is not in itself fulfilling. Ram Dass, Thich Nhat Hanh, Sister Chan Khong, Norman Fischer, and Michael Eigen are among the nine she interviewed. Seeing the interviews as extensions of her role as a teacher, Dimidjian helps to shape the interviews by thoughtful questions and perceptive comments. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	RZU3P9W83W2AZ	0814629520	366816862	The Color of Me	Books	4	1	1	N	N	multicultural lesson for children	God creates a world filled with color. \\"Then God blessed the colors with love, life, and purpose.\\" But there comes the time when the people God created on the Earth start to argue about what color God is--green like the plants, blue like the sky, and so on. It isn't long before they are saying that God has the color of their own skin--black, red, yellow, etc. Their disagreements lead nowhere, until a rainbow forms across the sky and, as one of the people says, they all realize that God is not any one color, but is the \\"same colors as we are, [and] everyone is made from God's colors.\\" McDunn works at a monastery for Benedictine Sisters in Minnesota. Knutson's vivid full-page illustrations accentuate the simple story's lesson about the equality of all races in the eyes of God. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R1NOSW1K2QRO5Y	9074822630	982052913	The Koto: A Traditional Instrument in Contemporary Japan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	traditional instrument of Japan	\\"The koto...is a thirteen-string Japanese zither.\\" The traditional koto is about six feet long with thirteen movable bridges placed under its strings. The player sits at the end known as the \\"head.\\" Nontraditional kotos can vary in length as well as some of the design details. As with many objects and activities in Japanese society, the koto and the playing of it have been used to signify the social class and certain social situations. Varied individuals such as aristocrats, blind male professionals, and female amateurs indicated their status by how they played the instrument. An ethnomusicologist at the U. of Otago in New Zealand, Johnson ranges through the construction and design of the koto, music for it and the performance of this, the koto's place in Japanese culture, and changes in these as Japanese society has changed. Color photographs of different perspectives, including close-ups when called for, accompany the technical, historical, and sociological topics. With the size and quality of a coffee-table art book, this work makes this somewhat specialized subject readily accessible to readers with different interests about Japanese culture and musicology. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	RB3YUDKFN03FF	1932031766	761191577	Street Saints: Renewing American Cities	Books	4	13	13	N	N	good works in America's cities	Founder of the Center for Renewal in Houston, Elliott was able to do over 300 interviews with persons who are leaders in successful civic organizations. Although their ethnic, social, and religious backgrounds vary widely, there is a common thread running though all the diverse activities--namely, improvement of urban life in general or some specific group in particular. And the many individuals Elliott portrays on the basis of her interviews do this with singular and exemplary imagination, commitment, and effectiveness. Elliott goes beyond only praising the individuals by uncovering their motivations and describing their work to also go into the founding of their programs, how the programs are run, their interactions with communities and government at different levels, and the keys to their survival and success. Thus, readers are given not only engaging portrayals of exemplary social activists, but also outlines of their innovative, relevant programs which can serve as models for ones in other urban centers. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R3VM538YVNEOLP	0881926434	724149372	Classic Garden Plans	Books	5	14	14	N	N	plans for all types of gardens with accompanying photos	Color plans of 16 noteworthy and in some cases famous gardens from around the world are filled in with the plants in particular spots, and in many cases the pools, stonework, and other features of them. These plans are complemented by luxurious color photos of the plants in bloom. Stuart's work is not only to highlight the classic gardens, but to aid gardeners in recreating them. Most of the gardens are seen as meeting some purpose of their creators. A Japanese garden is meant to offer surroundings for meditation; an Indian garden is for the concubines of a Hindu emperor; Monet's water garden in France was a place for him to paint and to find inspiration and solace toward the end of his life. A herb garden and an orchard are also included. The oversize \\"Classic Garden Plans\\" serves as a guide for garden design or a gift to a garden enthusiast. Stuart is a Scotman with a background in botany and writing who has done previous books on plants in history. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	RVGI9QRQIFHQY	0826334830	946589740	The Texas Rangers and the Mexican Revolution: The Bloodiest Decade, 1910-1920	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Texas-Mexican border tensions in early 1900s	During the decade of 1910-20, tensions between Mexico and the United States over incidents relating to Pancho Villa's threat to Mexico's president Venustiano Carranza and U. S. incursions into Mexico led by General John Pershing had become so tense that the \\"situation was not dissimilar to that of Jewish settlers in the West Bank\\"; with the small number of white Texans along the border being compared to the Jewish settlers surrounded by a much greater number of resentful Palestinians. In this situation, the Texas governors of this decade--Colquitt, Ferguson, and Hobby--used the Texas Rangers to protect Texas citizens and combat the tactics of Mexicans directed by Carranza and in some cases acting as vigilantes. The unique and in ways controversial activities of the Texas Rangers in this complex, volatile, and fluid situation is the subject the authors hone in on. Harris and Sadler, both former professors at New Mexico State U., bring to light little-known dimensions of the historical events, which continue to affect relationships and feelings between the white Texans and Hispanics in the area. There was much lawlessness on both sides. Mexican Army troops dressed as civilians crossed the border to raid Texas communities. After Texas Rangers executed two Mexican agitators after taking them by force from the F.B.I., the U. S. Attorney General issued an order that all prisoners henceforth be held by the U. S. Army. The situation was especially complicated not only because of points of opposition between Texas and the U. S. Federal Government, but also because of Mexican president Carranza's desire for recognition by the U. S. while trying at the same time to stand up to it. While concentrating on the unique role of the Rangers in this complex historical situation, Harris and Sadler also construct the context in which their activities took place. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R49VPJP1R25BO	0786417854	319051420	Arkham House Books: A Collector's Guide	Books	5	8	9	N	N	comprehensive guide for book collectors	Books published by Arkham House are especially desirable with science-fiction and fantasy book collectors. The books have exceptional value not only for their scarcity, but because of the publisher's historical significance in this genre. Arkham House was started in 1937 by the writer August Derleth to publish the works of his friend H. P. Lovecraft who had recently died. With the success of this first venture, the House took on other authors, among them Lord Dunsany and Robert Howard. In 1947, it published Ray Bradbury's first book, \\"Dark Carnival.\\" After introductory general material on the collecting, buying, and selling of Arkham House books, there are annotated bibliographies of every book published by Arkham as well as its two imprints, Mycroft & Moran, and Stanton & Lee. The detailed annotations identify the contents of the respective book and point out bits of information important to collectors; and they end with current prices for first printings of first editions of the book in its best condition with a jacket and without a jacket. But that's not all--following the three comprehensive bibliographies are sections on the 35 most valuable Arkham House books; its books ranked by scarcity; and a listing of the publisher's catalogs, which are also of interest to collectors, though not nearly so valuable as the books, the most desirable of which can cost a couple of thousand dollars. Nielsen is himself a collector of Arkham House books. This up-to-date, comprehensive, and easy-to-use handbook is plainly of interest to any collectors or dealers of Arkham House books and of books in the science-fiction and supernatural/fantasy genres. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R3N3VB87V3YWWX	1556592108	342891453	In the Dark	Books	5	5	5	N	N	fetching poems by 89 year old blind woman	IN THE DARK by Ruth Stone. Copper Canyon Press, PO Box 271, Port Townsend, WA 98368; [...] angela@coppercanyonpress.org. 110+x pp. $22.00 hardcover, ISBN 1-55659-210-8. <br />     Ruth Stone is 89, and nearly totally blind. At this age and with this condition, memories make up the substance of her life. For her, memory is virtually a sensation; memory brings her into an intimacy with her surroundings and her past. Feelings and moods are not transient for her. Rather, they are entire universes of different aspects of the world and existence. The \\"sadness of things/speaks for you.\\" (from \\"Interim\\") The flower beds and lawns of a small college--one where Stone likely taught at one time--intone the \\"quiet authority of culture.\\" (from \\"Border\\") The title is somewhat ironic, for Stone illumines her subjects in an almost preternatural way.	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R11G15QYTGMYG8	1556592132	78162587	Ordinary Mornings of a Coliseum	Books	5	3	5	N	N	vivid poems tap into ancient roots	Dubie's poems are infused with a paganistic energy--vivid, simple, preternaturally alert, free from any psychologistic traces. The volume's cover has a mask from a Roman fresco associated with initiation into the cult of Dionysus staring out wide-eyed. \\"Lizards with sails are screaming to her while the green spade/opens a whole nursery, a powdered vault of spotted dinosaur eggs/racked with loose hexes of eight,...\\" (from \\"The Young Professor of Wyoming Wears a Red-Banded Skin of Snake on the Spirit Finger of Her Right Hand That Shakes...\\") This could all be some kind of surrealism, except that it's more complex than surrealism. It doesn't just try to net the wayward detritus of dreams, but also to continuously evoke irrational but keenly felt fears, mysteries, and hopes. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R1LY1GOPM3DINT	0835608409	875379018	In Search of P. D. Ouspensky: The Genius in the Shadow of Gurdjieff	Books	5	7	12	N	N	biography and new perspective on Ouspensky	Partly a biography of Ouspensky and partly an examination of the similarities and differences in his spiritual beliefs and those of his mentor Gurdjieff, Lachman's work basically searches for the reasons for or causes of the eventual estrangement between these two spiritual leaders of the early twentieth century. Lachman places them in the company of Madame Blavatsky, Rudolf Steiner, and Aleister Crowley. Ouspensky and Gurdjieff first met in Moscow; their lives were disrupted by the Russian Revolution; and both eventually ended up in London. Gurdjieff has the claims to greater fame and influence in the areas of the occult and mysticism. Although Lackman does not completely dismiss the bases for Gurdjieff's higher reputation, he does bring light to Ouspensky's originality, independence, and influence. Gurjieff's higher standing in relation Ouspensky is seen as a result of his craftiness, which is a type of worldliness whereby he managed his image to try to make for an assured and favorable legacy. While the relative stature of each in this vein of modern spirituality can finally be only opinion, in his search to establish such stature, Lachman opens up many dimensions of the modern-day spirituality espoused by these two, both of whom were undeniably influential. Lachman has written two previous books and has appeared on BBC programs on topics related to his writings of social critique and modern spirituality. <br />	2004-10-28
US	53067931	R2BIIH7EUEU0CZ	1855759705	222076574	The Mind of the Paedophile: Psychoanalytic Perspectives (Forensic Psychotherapy Monograph Series)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Collected articles on psychology of pedophiles	Cure, of \\"healing,\\" of pedophilia is only one of its aspects dealt with in the six articles by psychiatrists with teaching and clinical backgrounds. Recognizing that the sources and causes of pedophilia are too little understood for any cure to be much more than a somewhat arbitrary, hopeful exercise, the editors and authors of this volume of the publisher's Forensic Psychotherapy Monograph Series attempt to answer the questions \\"where to these urges come from?\\", and \\"what purpose do they serve?\\" for the pedophile. In the articles with references to individual pedophiles, clinical studies, sexual abuse suffered by pedophiles themselves, and the relationship of adolescent experiences and homosexuality to pedophilia, the psychiatrists shed much light on the murky origins and the playing out of pedophilia. With the bulk of its content on the psychology and behavior of pedophiles rather than clinical data, the collected articles are of interest to many lay readers. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R1X00Q5PEA0T4L	0809142929	622762146	The Bible In The British Museum: Interpreting The Evidence	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Bible and archaeology	THE BIBLE IN THE BRITISH MUSEUM - Interpreting the Evidence by T. C. Mitchell. Paulist Press, 997 Macarthur Blvd., Mahwah, NJ 07430; [...] jillg@paulistpress.com. 2004, this edition. 136 pp. $22.95 trade paper, ISBN 0-8091-4292-9. maps, photographs, illustrations, bibliography, indexes. <br />     This author who is a former Keeper of Western Asiatic Antiquities at the British Museum does not try to solve any esoterica or controversies in the Bible in discussing a wide variety of antiquities mostly from the Near East with some from adjacent Mediterranean lands. Rather, Mitchell uses the diverse, interesting antiquities as direct or related references to the historical periods covered in the long time span of the Bible and the cultures of the different lands and civilizations which are parts of its tales. The photographs of the numerous antiquities are photographed as if part of a museum exhibition on the subject. A group of 7th-century B.C. pottery vessels found in a tomb near Bethlehem exemplify the \\"metaphor of the potter [Jeremiah] used to clarify his prophetic message.\\" Hieroglyphics, statues, passages from ancient texts, and impressions on coins are similarly used to illustrate parts of the Bible. From Mitchell's approach, limited though it is to materials from the British Museum, one learns a good deal about both the Bible and related ancient cultures.	2004-09-28
US	53067931	RZI1GP53IUZ47	0870137131	999890480	Remember the Distance that Divides Us: The Family Letters of Philadelphia Quaker Abolitionist and Michigan Pioneer Elizabeth Margaret Chandler, 1830-1842	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Collected letters by and to early woman abolitionist	Numerous letters to and from Elizabeth Margaret Chandler not only provide incomparable knowledge about the early days of the abolitionist movement, but also American Midwestern society of the time. One of the appendices is a list of the household effects relating to Chandler. But the book is of interest mostly for the sympathies and activities of the young Elizabeth Chandler regarding the issue of abolition. She died in 1834 before she was 30. The letters are written in the now-archaic language used by the Quakers of the time--e. g., \\"I thank thee my dear Elizabeth for thy large sheet or sheets so well filled for I believe there are several of thy letters yet unanswered by me...,\\" from a lengthy letter by Chandler's aunt to her. The length of many of the letters, which go on for three or more pages, imparts to an exceptional degree the thoughts and activities of the individuals as well as their relationships with others. In her short life spent mostly in Michigan, Chandler contributed much to raising the consciousness of the region about the issue of abolition. The founder of the Logan Female Antislavery Society, she is also seen as an early activist in the fledgling women's movement. When she died, some individuals were moved to write poems about her. These are included in another appendix. The voluminous and varied materials brought together with editor Mason's deft sense of organization and worthiness is not only an invaluable source book on the little-known but influential Chadler; but it is a rich picture of individuals and their involvement in a major social issue of the time as well as their ordinary, daily activities and concerns. From the length and depth of the letters of Chandler and others she communicated with, the reader becomes involved with them as if they were subjects of a biography or characters in a historical novel. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R2L16FB1TN31WA	1570762775	209260610	Norman Parkinson: Portraits in Fashion	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Pictorial biography of influential fashion photographer	Beginning his career in the 1930s, the British photographer Norman Parkinson practically invented the genre of fashion photography with his bold, elegant, and imaginative photographs in the magazines Vogue, Harper's Bazaar, Town and Country, and others. Robin Muir, former picture edition of the British \\"Vogue,\\" follows Parkinson's career with an introduction and with an essay and gallery of representative photographs from each decade from the 1930s to the '80s. Parkinson died in 1990 while on location for a photo shoot. Parkinson managed to remain at the center of the highly-competitive field of fashion photography for the most demanding fashion magazines because his photographic genius was such that he adapted to the styles, celebrities, imagination, and interests of each decade without loosing his exceptional, uncompromising gift. His buoyant, mannerly personality going with his self-evident professionalism played a part in this. A Parkinson photograph from the 1980s stands out as clearly as one from the beginning of his career in the 1930s, as does one from any other decade. This finely-produced art book with informative and knowledgeable text and over 100 full-page photos, most in color, is a fitting commemoration of this incomparable fashion photographer who left an indelible mark on the field. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R11ZI8IC09Z9PM	0881926531	858810196	Pocket Guide to Ornamental Grasses (Timber Press Pocket Guides)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Handy illustrated guide to all kinds of grasses for gardener	TIMBER PRESS POCKET GUIDE TO ORNAMENTAL GRASSES by Rick Darke. Timber Press, 133 S.W. Second Ave. - Site 450, Portland, OR 97204-3527. 2004. 226 pp. $19.95 flexible hardcover, ISBN 0-88192-653-1. color photographs, glossary, index. <br />     Over 330 bright, sharp color photographs illustrate as many different kinds of ornamental grasses. The grasses are cataloged alphabetically. But 32 categories preceding the encyclopedic catalog group the hundreds of kinds according to different characteristics. A few of these are clumping ornamental grasses, cool-season ornamental grasses, ornamental grasses for cut flowers, ornamental grasses for dry sites (and woodlands, dry shade, fragrance, etc.), and ornamental grasses for movement in breezes. Ornamental grasses are becoming increasing popular with today's gardeners because of their textures, variety, and adaptability. And because, as the numerous photographs show, they make for attractive gardens and landscapes that do not appear overly manicured. Darke is a landscape design consultant who has won awards in the field. His \\"Pocket Guide\\" is a ideal reference for anyone interested in ornamental grasses, particularly gardeners at all levels.	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R3P5RIR99NJBZ7	0295984546	902478654	Japanese Kite Prints: Selections from the Skinner Collection	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Informative, engaging study of kites in Japanese culture	Flying kites was a part of the traditional culture of the major Japanese city of Edo (present-day Tokyo). Also a center for traditional Japanese printmaking, it was natural that kites and kite-flying would often be depicted on prints. Stevenson, who has spent much time in Asia, treats the intertwined subjects of kites and prints with a historical overview that includes frequent discussions of particular kites and prints. \\"These kites [depicted in a print] must be large: the kite the young men are flying requires two to control the line, with a third looping the line into a basket.\\" Besides depicting ceremonial or recreational kite-flying, prints could also use kites symbolically, as when one artist suggests that confetti falling from a kite could be seeds being scattered over a field by farmers hoping for a good harvest. Such symbolisms indicate the meaningful place held by kites in the culture, almost as if they were religious or ritualistic objects. Stevenson's narrative and analyses for newcomers to the subject or advanced students complemented by colorful prints and details of them, including a number of large fold-outs, brings this somewhat specialized subject to life. With the author's special interest in kites as a part of Asian culture and his many years living in Asia, the subject seems second nature to him. He writes about it both naturally and knowledgeably, as if one were listening to an absorbing lecturer. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R1J0KZ831RYFOG	1931896119	482479846	Wandering Star (Lannan Translation Selection Series)	Books	4	56	62	N	N	Novel on struggles and hopes of refugees	The \\"wandering stars\\" are two young girls, each trying to escape from an oppressive, threatening condition. Esther is a Jewish girl who escapes from Nazi-occupied Europe to Israel. Nejma lives in a Palestinian refugee camp. The two girls' lives are not intertwined physically, but rather spiritually in how they both deal with similar feelings of fear, helplessness, and desire for a better life. Le Clezio, a French author of 20 novels, goes beyond politics, cultural differences, and historical moments to cast light on the universal feelings in experiences of suffering and the struggles, desires, and dreams growing out of such experiences. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R3LIBSOR78U19O	0813027667	305247531	Magazines That Make History: Their Origins, Development, and Influence	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Influential magazines of 20th century	In these days of TV, movies, DVDs, computer graphics, and ubiquitous advertising, most are unmindful of the role that magazines founded in the earlier and middle years of the 1900s played in bringing about and affecting this visual culture. The two South American authors with extensive experience in international magazines and media focus on eight magazines that had leading roles in bringing about the contemporary visual culture and which to varying degrees continue to influence and reflect it. The eight are Time, Hola!, Life, Paris Match, Reader's Digest, People, Der Spiegel, and National Geographic. Time, for example, founded in the early 1920s, created the mold for news coverage which is followed by other news magazines and TV news programs down to today. Life pioneered photojournalism, and laid the groundwork for the media treatment of celebrity. National Geographic helped to popularize many areas of science, from paleontology to astronomy; and in more recent years, raise environmental and multicultural concerns. By covering eclectic and unpredictable subjects, Reader's Digest and People were instrumental in the ascendancy of popular culture. The foreign magazines from Spain, France, and German had similar influences on their respective cultures, while at the same time, like the U. S. publications, had a part in bringing about the global culture of media, celebrity, and entertainment. The authors Angeletti and Oliva explain the strategies of the founder of each of the magazines which allowed them to become so successful even though the odds were heavily against them. About half of the content is photographs or art work from the magazines over the years. As the text relates the playing out of the strategies in the adaptations to cultural and competitive changes over the years, the extensive visual matter is a record of visual styles in media over the years. Some photos or illustrations are cultural hallmarks. The work is a notable contribution to media studies for bringing together the leading magazines so as to put them alongside the newer media such as TV and computers as a part of the media field that has taken a central, formulative role in today's society. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	RCF17M4H9I2J4	1592285724	984164053	Lost in Tibet: The Untold Story of Five American Airmen, a Doomed Plane, and the Will to Survive	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Untold story of WWII U S airmen	In 1943 during WWII, five U.S. airmen flying the \\"Hump\\" between Burma and the U.S. ally Nationalist China were blown off course into Tibet in a storm and bailed out of their plane before it crashed. After an arduous trek across the forbidding Tibetan mountainous terrain, they arrived in the capital of Lhasa--only to find themselves at the center of precarious international affairs. The Chinese were trying to take over Tibet. Since the U. S. was an ally of China in the war against Japan, the Tibetans could not believe that the American airmen were not somehow involved with China's hostile aims toward their country. The Chinese were concerned that the airmen would be witnesses to their actions taken to occupy Tibet even while the U. S. government was trying to keep the Chinese movements from becoming widely known. The authors tell this complex, engaging tale clearly, skillfully keeping its different elements in balance while keeping a focus on the plight of the airmen resented by both Tibet and China and dealt with at arm's length by the U. S. until they made their timely overland escape to India with the aid of British citizens in the region who were acting as surrogates for the American government. The authors, both journalists, recount the full story of this little-known episode of WWII that has heretofore received only passing attention. From their travels to mountainous areas of Asia, they bring a special sense of the five airmen's struggles to survive in the Tibetan terrain at the beginning and again at the end of their incredible story. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R2Q8VT7LMSRREF	0295984171	873238834	Hitchcock with a Chinese Face: Cinematic Doubles, Oedipal Triangles, and China's Moral Voice	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Timely study of leading Chinese art films	Silbergeld takes the three Chinese films Suzhou River, The Day the Sun Turned Cold, and Good Men to examine how Western film techniques have been brought into Chinese cinema. The films also evidence that Western literary and cultural influences are a part of Chinese cinema. The influence of Freud, Faulkner, and Dostoevsky can be seen in one or more of the films; and, not surprisingly, the cinematic techniques of Hitchcock are seen, as well those of David Lynch and Jean Luc-Godard. \\"The [Chinese] films are remarkable for their intellectual depth and range, their layered complexity, their emotional sobriety, their appeal to a sophisticated film audience rather than a mass market, their determined critique of contemporary culture...and the resonance of their moral voice.\\" The same could be said for Western art films, which the Chinese films plainly resemble, to the point of imitation in many ways. In a pocket inside the back cover is a CD with scenes from the movies. Silbergeld's selection of only three distinctive, yet in many ways representative films makes for an efficient, yet pithy exposure to the best of Chinese art films; which films are gaining more attention as China's economic and political power grows. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	RBIDJ2RG3S1OR	0814629709	908231946	Saints and Their Symbols: Recognizing Saints in Art and in Popular Images	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Informative, useful reference on Christian religious art	Under the heading of the major section, \\"Historical Survey or Historical Atlas of the Saints,\\" over 150 saints are included in rough chronological order, beginning with the parents of the Virgin Mary and ending with Theresa Benedicta of the Cross, who died in a German concentration camp in 1942. Along with key biographical facts, entries for each of the numerous saints discuss symbols, settings, poses, clothing, and objects commonly included in paintings or other artistic representations of the respective saint and why these details are associated with him or her. With each entry is a work of art in which the saint is pictured. The large-size, glossy-paged reference has the quality of a coffee-table art book. But its primary purpose is helping reader identify saints in works of art mostly from the Middle Ages and Renaissance, but from other eras as well. The well-thought-out reference is useful in different ways. One can go through the \\"Historical Survey\\" in order or randomly to learn about the saints as they have been represented in works of art throughout history and look at the related works of art. The Index, on the other hand, lists the many details found in works of art on saints so that one can find a particular saint from details in a particular work--which one might have seen in a museum or public square in Italy, for example. And there's a third approach to coming to understand and appreciate the the portrayals of saints that have been a large part of Western and Near Eastern visual art in past centuries: The \\"Dictionary of Saints with Their Attributes\\" is a visual, alphabetical cataloguing of the saints in typical poses with typical garb and holding or alongside typical symbols or objects. The black-and-white illustrations of the Dictionary can be compared to an image one might have seen or recalled; and then one is directed to the written entry to learn about the saint and the work of art where one saw the image. For its comprehensiveness, attractiveness, and usefulness as a reference, this work is patently a leading work in its field. The authors are involved in different Italian cultural, art, and religious institutions.eness, and usefulness as a reference, this work is patently a leading work in its field. The authors are involved in different Italian cultural, art, and religious institutions. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R3468DCB2R5YHA	0801878691	294190610	The Artisan of Ipswich: Craftsmanship and Community in Colonial New England	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding biography of early American craftsman	Tarule, himself a furniture-maker in Vermont making reproductions of 17th-century furniture, tells Thomas Dennis's story almost as if Dennis were a character in a novel. Dennis was one of the first furniture-makers in America to gain notoriety. Coming to America and settling in the Massachusetts village of Ipswich in the mid 1600s, Dennis used many of the techniques and styles found in British furniture-making of this period. Yet having to select appropriate trees from American forests, usually in consideration of village laws relating to certain kinds of trees, work with other American craftsmen, make furniture to order from nearby residents, and give it suitable embellishments for attractiveness, Dennis is seen as an originator of American woodworking and furniture-making. But in this work, Tarule is not interested in a study of furniture-making, or a history of it. The author's concern is the work and expertise Dennis put into making one oak chest. From the author's following this in detail, one learns a great deal about 17th-century furniture-making and also the regional Colonial society. For Dennis is viewed in the narrative as both a extraordinary and respected craftsman and a member of the community which supported and shaped his trade. Tarule does not simply say what kind of wood the particular chest was made of, but takes the reader right with Dennis as he goes to the nearby woods looking for a tree with suitable oak tree, keeping in mind the village's laws. \\"As soon as Thomas Dennis entered the Ipswich woods, he was in the New World. The forest was primordial...The sort of trees Dennis looked for are apparent in his furniture. The wood is close grained....\\" And so on with a discussion of different types of oak trees whose characteristics Ipswich artists knew from \\"forest type, slope degree and direction, dampness of the ground, soil conditions, and even genetic variation on local trees.\\" Tarule even engages in a comparison of British forests and American forests of the period, and changes in American forests over time. Tarule weaves a fascinating narrative under the general heading of Americana of interest to diverse readers such as antique dealers, woodworkers, and American Colonial historians. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	RGHREE3JIF27R	0385500610	994003380	The Twilight of Atheism: The Rise and Fall of Disbelief in the Modern World	Books	5	15	26	N	N	The origins, history, and effects of atheism	With the title playing off the title of Nietzsche's \\"Twilight of the Idols,\\" McGrath goes into the grounds and development of atheism in Western society. Nietzsche is dealt with in a few places, but McGrath locates the sources of atheism mainly in the period leading up to the French Revolution of the late 1800s when the centuries-old place of the Catholic Church, along with the place of the monarchy, was challenged, and drastically minimalized by subsequent revolutionary events and related political and cultural changes. Darwin and later Freud are seen as prime expressions of the atheism in the European cultural milieu after the French Revolution. Recognizing the extent of atheism in its various forms in the era of modernism down to today as well as its strong appeal considering the failures of religion and government, McGrath nonetheless detects that atheism has reached its limits, and that large numbers of persons in postmodern society are being prompted to \\"explore...the forbidden fruit of spirituality.\\" The religious fundamentalism of many American Christians or Islamic radicals is ordinarily pointed to as evidence of the limitations and deficiencies of atheism and the secularism that is closely related to it in the contemporary world. But McGrath goes beyond this to lay out the reasons for and attractions of atheism as a vital force which could continue to play a central role in the culture if today's religious fundamentalism repeats the errors of religion in the past which gave rise to atheism and made it such a powerful, and in some ways a hopeful, restorative force. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	RPCUFYQDA1F3E	3775713956	147558003	Ana Mendieta: Earth Body	Books	5	13	21	N	N	Comprehensive study of the contemporary artist	Ana Mendieta was only in her early 40s when she died in 1985. Born in Havana, Cuba, she came to the U. S. as a political refugee with her family when she was 12. Beginning in her artistic training at the U. of Iowa, she incorporated feminist and multicultural leanings into the conceptual art, land art, photography, and performance art she practiced with equal intensity and innovation. No matter what type of art she engaged in, Mendieta used her own body, or sometimes images or impressions of it, as a medium. With earth, blood, streams, shoreline, trees, and foliage, Mendieta meant to teach viewers about the close, intimate connection between a person's body and the natural world. With other art works, she makes statements about the savagery of rape and tyranny. No matter what point she means to convey or type of art she engages in, Mendieta's art is distinguished by its exceptional rawness. While the rawness is often inevitably provocative, it strikes one mostly as unaltered, immediate reality. The copious photographic record of Mendieta's art with essays by art experts who knew her or are familiar with her is a comprehensive appreciation of the short career of this artist who work both strikingly and complexly mixes artistic, political, and cultural elements of contemporary society. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R1NUCL083LP7Z	1931498717	762318883	Don't Think of an Elephant!: Know Your Values and Frame the Debate--The Essential Guide for Progressives	Books	4	33	39	N	N	How to effectively contest conservative political dialogue	Lakoff uses his background as a cognitive linguist with the U. of California to give guidance on how to counter conservatives' very effective shaping of the national dialogue on politics, cultural issues, environmental questions, and most other topics of national concern. The foundation of Lakoff's guidance is distinguishing conservatives as adhering to a \\"strict father\\" mode, whereas progressives can be seen as adhering to a \\"nurturant parent\\" mode. This timely political/social activist handbook outlines a program of communication, public relations, and activism not only for progressives, but for any individuals and groups opposing the agenda, direction, and values of the conservatives who are currently dominating politics and political dialogue so as to undermine serious consideration of any other points of view. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R1981DP6VHIONO	1889963666	422485761	The Whales, They Give Themselves: Conversations with Harry Brower, Sr. (Oral Biography Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Inside view of Eskimo society	The child of a white whaler and trader who lived in the Arctic and an Eskimo mother, Harry Brower, born in 1924, straddled two worlds. Because of this, he was able to work out a satisfactory arrangement between the local Inupiaq Eskimo tribe and scientists interested in whales for scientific and environmental reasons. Most importantly to the Inupiaqs, the tribe was able to continue hunting whales as they had since time immemorial. For the Inupiaqs, such whale-hunting was a fundamental part of their culture, as the Plains Indians hunted buffalo. The cycle of the year centered on whale hunting, and many community events were based on the hunts and the cutting up, cooking, and preservation of the whales killed in a hunt. One would hardly realize Brower was not a native Eskimo steeped in the culture. His conversations range over all parts of Eskimo life--family life, surviving the winters, holidays, the inroads of European culture, hunting, and religion. Brower is a rich font of Eskimo life and lore. But beyond this, the material is informative and fetching especially for its unique, first-hand, picture of whale hunting from the viewpoint of Eskimos.  <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	R2DGYS4FYMXPJ2	031331635X	57191973	The Utopian Fantastic: Selected Essays from the Twentieth International Conference on the Fantastic in the Arts (Contributions to the Study of Science Fiction & Fantasy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Collected articles on fantasy lit and contemporary culture	In the opening article, Thomas Morrisey remarks that although the Conference took place before 9/11 and the subsequent war in Iraq and rise in terrorist incidents around the world, these developments have not extinguished the urge for utopia. He quotes a Carl Freedman from his critique of writings of the philosopher Ernst Bloch: \\"[Utopia is not imagined] in the future...by mere chronological forecasting, or in mechanistic or philistine notions of bourgeois 'progress,' but rather as the future is the object of hope, of our deepest and most radical longings.\\" The following 14 essays, most by professors in fields of English, write about this \\"hope\\" as it is inherent in or reflected in different types of literature in different periods, from Kurt Vonnegut's \\"Player Piano,\\" David Mamet's play \\"The Water Engine,\\" Mary Shelley's \\"Frankenstein,\\" to William Gibson's \\"Neuromancer,\\" among many others. As the diverse works evidence, the utopian vision rising out of hope has at times been portrayed as resulting in dystopian conditions. Most of the essays focus on single works or a couple. A few deal with the topic as found in areas such as writings by women or romantic fantasy, as seen in the writings of Ursula K. Le Guin or Tolkein. By taking a long historical view of this genre which has become especially popular in today's technological, futuristic age as well as in-depth critical views on some of the most popular and influential works, the collected articles bring a new appreciation of the utopian fantastic literature. It is no longer seen as essentially escapism or fantasy, but as central to the modern psyche. <br />	2004-09-28
US	53067931	RBSEL7H1ZPASL	1932656014	190508891	Lion of the Balkans	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Engaging and informative historical fiction on Balkan region	LION OF THE BALKANS, A Novel by Vladimir Chernozemsky. <br /> <br />     Chernozemsky draws on his own life for this historical novel about the Balkan region in the years preceding World War I. Anyone wishing to get a comprehension of the origins of this War, the seeming irresolvable conflicts of the region throughout the twentieth century, and the contemporary situation involving the NATO countries, including the U. S., could not find a better source than Chernozemsky's \\"Lion of the Balkans.\\" The author had relatives, including a grandfather in the military, who were involved in the events he writes about. And from his activities as a poet and documentary filmmaker in Sofia, he had to hastily make an escape to the West when Communist State Security agents were after him for espionage. Since his escape from Bulgaria, Chernozemsky has lived in northern Africa, Europe, and lately the United States. <br />     The complex historical tale the author weaves is prefaced by six maps showing the changing political and national boundaries of the Balkan region, particularly Bulgaria, from the middle of the nineteenth century until the First World War. Prefacing the narrative is also a three-page list of \\"Principal Characters.\\" Indicating the scope and complexity of the novel reflecting the historical realities and events of the early 1900s, these characters range from Bulgarian royalty, Turkish rulers and administrators, officers and soldiers in the warring military factions, government officials and religious figures, and diplomats to family members and common people such as a cook and a houseboy. Most are forced to take sides in the struggle between the Turkish Ottoman rulers intent in maintaining their hold on the region and the Bulgarians and other nationalist and ethnic groups who set aside their own conflicts for the time to try to drive the Turks out. But there are also several characters such as scheming, ruthless Turkish rulers and committed Bulgarian nationalists whose activities are followed from beginning to end to hold the panoramic, shifting narrative together. <br />     It is Bulgaria risking all to throw off the Turkish yoke that is the Lion of the Balkans. Improbably, Bulgaria succeeded in its war against the Ottoman Empire. But in succeeding, it exposed the decay that had set into the Empire, which set the stage for WWI. Bulgaria was not to enjoy its hard-won victory for long. World Wars I and II and subsequent Communist rule only reignited the ethnic and regional rivalries in Bulgaria and the rest of the Balkans to bring other trials and terrors to the troubled region. Chernozemsky's sweeping historical novel not only relates a picture of the historical events, but also imparts an understanding of the complex, fragile network of groups and types of persons inhabiting this critical region.	2004-09-23
US	53067931	R21419JT8CD2RD	159228342X	384206005	The Night of the Long Knives: Forty-Eight Hours That Changed the History of the World	Books	4	3	6	N	N	network of Hitler and his malevolent henchman	Maracin's popular account of the infamous Night of the Long Knives when Hitler and his henchmen murdered political rivals and numerous private German citizens who had incurred his anger or suspicions for one reason or another; in some cases, something as normal and transient as a news article. In charting the background leading up to the well-coordinated murderous purge of most persons in Germany who would even remotely resist Hitler's seizure of power, Maracin draws profiles of Hitler's top accomplices <br />(e. g., Gobbels, Himmler) and of the major victims too. A retired criminal investigator, Maracin gives a broad view of this few hours during which Hitler laid the ground for his eventual dictatorship, showing how the many actors played their part so as to reveal Hitler's ruthlessness and dementia and the web of evil he wove.	2004-09-06
US	53067931	R27HYXHDDOP31Y	052181006X	451239535	The Reading Nation in the Romantic Period	Books	5	18	19	N	N	new approach to history of books and place in the culture	St. Clair's voluminous book is important in the inter-related fields of publishing history, history of the book, and history of reading on two grounds--its methodology and its detailed data. St. Clair's commentaries are informative, and his deductions will likely be regarded as bases for further studies. But it is the methodology and the unprecedented details on book publishing and many individual titles contained in 13 appendices of more than 250 pages which will especially draw the attention of many readers, historians, professors, and others in this area. For the appendices somewhat schematically indicate the methodology and present the data for the deductions. The author's painstaking efforts and publisher's equally meticulous efforts to accurately record, classify, and arrange the novel data in smaller type with footnotes account for the high price of the book. <br />     Focusing on publishing and reading--the sociology of reading it might be called--of the Romantic period in England, St. Clair at first exposes the errors of presumptions and perspectives that are commonly taken for granted in understandings and in other studies of his subject. Rather than the historian's or literary critic's approach, St. Clair adopts basically that of the statistician determined to get at the truth about the presence, distribution, and effects of books in society as far as this can be found. An example of the effects on print runs of the 1774 decisions [as to number of copies printing]; The main old-canon poets printed in the tiniest of formats, the cheapest achievably at the limits of manufacturing technology; Novels published at author's expense, are but three of the hundreds of specialized categories of the volume of data in the appendices. As St. Clair rightly notes, the common presumptions and perspectives are not founded on empirical evidence such as numbers of copies printed, subsequent printings, the timing of publication, etc.; nor are they capable of uncoveringand properly weighing such empirical evidence. The old presumptions and perspectives reflected the literary temperaments and sentiments about literature of such historians and others. <br />     St. Clair uncompromisingly brings an economist's and statistician's requirements of evidence and conservative assessments of it to his magisterial study of publishing, books, readers, and the society and economy they were a part of. \\"How to assess influence is among the most difficult of all the methodological challenges that historians face in attempting to understand the diffusionary rise and fall of ideas\\" is but one of the author's remarks exemplifying his questioning of the accepted knowledge in the field and setting out his own clear, though not dogmatic, premises. A former high official in the British Treasury, St. Clair is now a Senior Research Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge University. The author, with his great respect for simple logic and plain facts along with his innate conservativism in putting forth his new views, has not cast a rock against the house of embedded ideas about publishing, books, and readers. Rather, he has put out a lodestone which is likely to reformulate the study of books and related subjects.	2004-09-06
US	53067931	R39RQU63VUD3FO	0803282680	505152693	The Moon Pool (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	classic, influential sci-fi reissued	One of the most popular science-fiction writers in the early 1900s, Merritt had the reputation of the Lord of Fantasy. \\"The Moon Pool\\" evidences the \\"baroque complexities that Merritt introduced into his fairly standard plots through his use of elaborately contrived creatures, technologies, and settings,\\" as the editor Levy remarks in his Introduction. The Dweller reawakened on the island of Ponape where an ancient civilization once existed by a Dr. David Throckmartin and his group of scientist explorers is a vampire seeking new souls to devour. Merritt's fantasy about the Manichean struggle between good and evil is colored by his interest in the mystic Madame Blavatsky. Looked on unfavorably by some leading critics of the time, Merritt never gained much notice outside of the field of science fiction. For later generations, his ornate style limited his appeal. But he holds considerable historical interest in this genre of popular literature for opening it up to diverse elements such as developments in the sciences of physics and biology, figures from folk literature, literary references of all types (e. g., Celtic literature), and philosophical and religious ideas and themes like Blavatsky's mysticism which were all a part of his eclectic erudition. One sees such effects not only in today's fantasy literature, but also the popular fantasy movies.	2004-09-06
US	53067931	R675U163V8VRY	0972325220	190684414	The Big Ocean: An Underwater Naptime Adventure (Naptime Adventures)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	young girl learns about variety and color of ocean life	As Sally and her mother fall asleep on the beach, Sally dreams that they turn into mermaids. And they explore the ocean life at all levels, from depths to surface. \\"An octopus, urchin, anemones, and rays/they never knew life came in so many ways.\\" They also come across forests of kelp, brightly-colored fish, whales, and even the hull of an old sunken boat. The bright colors of the illustrations help to convey the varied, captivating sea life.	2004-09-06
US	53067931	RKURT67P5D538	0874137608	201652702	Utility And Beauty: Robert Wellford and Composition Ornament in America (Studies in Seventeenth- and Eighteenth- Century Art and Culture)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	early American architectural ornamentation	UTILITY AND BEAUTY - Robert Wellford and Composition Ornament in America by Mark Reinberger. U. of Delaware Press, Newark, DE/Associated Univesity Presses, London, United Kingdom. 2004. 190 pp. $65.00 hardcover/8-1/2\\" x 11\\", ISBN 0-87413-760-8. photographs, illustrations, map, appendices, notes, bibliography, index. <br />     In the early 1800s in America, composition--or \\"compo\\"--was a plaster-like material pressed into intricately carved, detailed ornaments for interior woodwork in homes and buildings, particularly mantelpieces. Robert Wellford (1775-1844) of Philadelphia was the leading maker of compo in the U. S. during this period. The neoclassical flourishes, forms, and mythological and other figures of composition along with patriotic imagery became popular in well-to-do homes along the coast from South Carolina to New Jersey because of the sense of elegance it added to rooms, but also because it was affordable by not having to be imported. Reinberger gives a full account of this American decoration which became prevalent in the early decades of the new nation. His account complemented with many photographs of varying detail deals with the manufacture of the composition, its different styles, the spread of it, and the fading of this \\"feminine\\" art form with the coming to favor of the \\"masculine\\" style of decoration modeled on the Doric Greek classical style. Wellford's career as a talented and ambitious businessman is also covered. This is a thorough work for architects, decorators, historians, and artists on the relatively brief period of a few decades when compo was the ornamentation of choice in buildings along the East Coast and embodied ideas about high style and desirable expression of the virtues and ideals of the new democracy. Reinberger is an associate professor in the College of the Environment and Design at the U. of Georgia. Historic preservation is one of the courses he teaches.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R169DD4HUYLLFC	0974766003	58461444	Wrestling With the Ancients: Modern Greek Identity and the Olympics	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ancient Olympics in modern-day Greek society	WRESTLING WITH THE ANCIENTS - Modern Greek Identity and the Olympics by Alexander Kitroeff. GreekWorks.com, 307 W. 89th St., New York, NY 10024; info@greekworks.com. 276+viii pp. $32.00 hardcover, ISBN 0-9747660-0-3. photographs, footnotes, appendices, bibliography, index.<br /><br />  The ancient Greek Olympics were the inspiration and model for the start of the quadrennial event of the modern-day Olympics begun in Athens in 1896. \\"The games will go on, although they  will experiences reforms, but as long as the Olympic movement needs the ideological legitimacy provided by ancient traditions, Greece will remain an important part of it.\\" This ineradicable identification with the Olympics has had effects on Greek self-image, politics, and society since 1896. Kitroeff brings to light the tensions within modern Greece between representing in various ways the ancient Greek culture that is a foundation of Western civilization and pursuing political and economic interests in becoming more integrated into Europe and being recognized as a fully modern nation. With European scholars and historians often ascribing historical roles and influences Greece itself did not necessarily accept, Greece was not always able to determine how other nations and peoples saw it. Kitroeff goes in to these complexities to present the modern Greek mentality and society so that readers come to comprehend Greece in a relevant, multi-faceted, and progressive way rather than as simply a symbol for an ancient culture that the Olympics were part of. In this, Kitroeff also relates Greece's participation in the modern Olympic games. The author is an associate professor of history at Haverford College and coeditor of The Journal of the Hellenic Diaspora and author of many books.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R1Z8TT42NL3NK1	3899550404	17872849	Sonic: Visuals for Music	Books	5	7	7	N	N	diverse art going with contemporary popular music	SONIC - Visuals for Music compiled and edited by Robert Klanten, Hendrik Hellige, and Tom Hulan. Die Gestalten Verlag, Berlin, Germany; [...] 2004. 335 pp. $50.00 hardcover, ISBN 3-89955-040-4. color photographs and illustrations. <br />     \\"Sonic\\" is an extended kaleidocope of the colors, shapes, and images of CD covers, album covers, and promotional and tour posters for popular singers and groups mostly from Europe and the United States. The innumerable graphics, art work, photographs, and combinations of these in all styles--from realistic to ironic to psychedelic to postmodern--are presented without captions except for notes on the name of the individual or art shop that did the design, the performer, and the medium (e. g., CD cover). In visually cataloging the hundreds of commercial works used in promoting and selling popular singers and bands in the highly competitive field of popular music, \\"Sonic\\" contains the many styles of state-of-the-art and some cutting-edge marketing; and also the diversity of the contemporary visual culture, as seen also in film, music videos, and TV advertising. It's a book to enjoy for anyone interested in the field of popular music and today's visual culture. Commerical artists and marketers especially would benefit from it. Contact information for the designers noted with the particular works is found in a section at the end of the book.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R3NJHRE7HRHS4B	0892811994	649616476	The Church of Mary Magdalene: The Sacred Feminine and the Treasure of Rennes-le-Chateau	Books	4	24	33	N	N	Mary Magdalene influence on history of Christianity	THE CHURCH OF MARY MAGDALENE - The Sacred Feminine and the Treasure of Rennes-le-Chateau by Jean Markale. Inner Traditions, One Park St., Rochester, VT 05767; [...] inbox@innertraditions.com. 311 pp. $18.95 trade paper, ISBN 0-89281-199-4. illustrations, footnotes, index.<br /><br />  Markale considers that the mysterious Abbe Sauniere and the designs he sought for the Mary Magdalene Church in a remote area of southern France associated with the Cathar heretics and other controversial Catholic groups such as the Templars are symbolic of the belief that Jesus and Mary Magdalene were married. The Abbe was active in this area in the late 1800s. He was himself a controversial figure who antagonized French politicians while also currying favor with local wealthy patrons who helped him with his project. The Abbe's project also calls into question the place of Jesus's mother Mary in the foundation of the Catholic Church and Christianity. Markale does much guesswork based on bringing together clues scattered widely over time and place to shed light on and raise both theological and historical questions about the origins and shaping of Christianity. He's the author of previous books on similar subjects and ancient Celtic culture.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R2YCIJG3W6UKIA	0393058484	497632681	The Annotated Brothers Grimm (The Annotated Books)	Books	5	47	52	N	N	multi-faceted appreciation of Grimm's fairy tales	THE ANNOTATED BROTHERS GRIMM, Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm, edited with a Preface and Notes by Maria Tatar, translated by Maria Tatar, Introduction by A. S. Byatt. Norton, 500 Fifth Ave., NY, 10110. 2004. 462+lvii pp. $35.00 hard cover/7\\" x 10\\", ISBN 0-393-05848-4. color/black-and-white illustrations, bibliography. <br />     With its color illustrations by Rackham, Nielsen, Cruikshank, and other popular book illustrators, and simple, spritey translations by Tatar, this collection of Grimm's Tales can be appreciated solely for its visual and literary quality. The rich blue cover with gilded decoration and lettering contributes as well to the special quality of this book. But for readers looking for more than the timeless fairy tales tales well told complemented by pleasing illustrations, Tatar's marginal annotations and introductory essay \\"Reading the Grimms\\" along with A. S. Byatt's 10-page Introduction enhance the tales in citing the origins of their elements, pointing to references of their characters and imagery, and denoting particular representations of themes and teachings found in all fairy tales and similar children's literature. Such material defines the distinctiveness of the Grimm's works while also setting them within the wide and long tradition of children's literature. With its inclusion of nine Grimm's \\"Tales for Adults\\" omitted from typical collections along with the varied other material allowing for appreciation or study of the many fairy tales in different ways, this work stands alone in its treatment of the tales. It's a part of the publisher's series of annotated editions of popular classics, including the Wizard of Oz and the Sherlock Holmes mysteries.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R2GXMEOL3X626N	0870136844	559319457	Living in the Land of Death: The Choctaw Nation, 1830-1860 (American Indian Studies)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Choctaw Nation in Indian Territory - Native American history	LIVING IN THE LAND OF DEATH - The Choctaw Nation, 1830-1860 by Donna L. Akers. Michigan State U. Press, 1405 South Harrison Road, Manly Miles Building - Suite 25, East Lansing, MI 48823-5202; [...] reaumej@msu.edu. 202+xxvii pp. $24.95 trade paper, ISBN 0-87013-684-4. photographs, notes, bibliography, index. <br />     Twenty percent of the Choctow Native Americans died in the forced relocation from their ancestral lands in Mississippi to Indian Territory (in present-day Oklahoma) as a result of the U. S. government's Indian Removal Act of 1830. But this was only the beginning of their travails. In Indian Territory, they faced hostility from tribes already settled there, along with diseases, natural disasters, and starvation. Akers, a professor of history at Purdue and a Choctaw Nation tribal member, follows how the Choctaws managed to overcome such hardships by intermixing with other groups and developing their own micro-economy based on cotton plantations linked to the world market for this commodidity. Like other tribes, the Choctows also had to deal with betrayals of agreements with them by the U. S. government. At best, they worked out an ambivalent mode of survival involving adaptations to regional economic and social conditions and measures to preserve their identity and heritage even though they had been transplanted. Akers sets out the historical account with a multicultural sensitivity to the Choctow's perduring, though at times frayed, desire to hold on to to their traditonal ways.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	RVQ3U7HVCIWVU	1571675205	243379483	Financing the Sport Enterprise	Books	5	1	2	N	N	how to start and operate a sports team for fun and profit	FINANCING THE SPORT ENTERPRISE by Thomas H. Sawyer, Michael Hypes, and Julin Ann Hypes. Sagamore Publishing, 804 North Neil St., Champaign, IL 61820; 800-327-5557; [...] jyedvobnick@sagamorepub.com. 2004. 316+vi pp. $54.95 trade paper, ISBN 1-57167-520-5. illustrations, tables, appendices, index. <br />     Financial planning for purchasng a team, financial management, various revenue sources, licensing, box-office operations, and fund-raising--it's all here in this comprehensive, authoritative handbook on purchasing and operating a sport enterprise. Professor of Physical Education, Recreation and Sport Management is only one of Sawyer's credentials. Michal Hypes and Ann Hypes also hold university-level positions in sport management and have much other experience in this area besides. Guidance covers \\"The Foundations of Sports Finance\\" and steps of purchasing a team through creating a base of loyal fans for financial stability and fund-raising using volunteers and members of a boosters' club. Risk management, including proper insurance, is another basic financial subject covered. Frequently using bulleted lists and highlighted insets, the authors go into all of the significant sub-topics and considerations of their general topics in this outstanding manual primarily for the lay person with an interest in owning an amateur or semi-professional team.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R1HT6LP0LIR9JA	0972497307	836495700	Isabel & The Hungry Coyote:Isa	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hispanic turn of Little Red Riding Hood fairy tale	ISABEL AND THE HUNGRY COYOTE (Isabel y el coyote hambriento) by Keith Polette, illustrated by Esther Szegedy. Raven Tree Press, 200 S. Washington - Suite 306, Green Bay, WI 54301; [...] raven@raventreepress.com. 2004. 32 pp. $16.95 hardcover, ISBN 0-9724973-0-7. English/Spanish glossary. <br />     The children's tale of Little Red Riding Hood is given a Hispanic twist, with Isabel as Red Riding Hood complete with a red hood. Basic Spanish words and phrases are inserted into a text which is about ninety percent English. \\"Picking flores [flowers], the girl in the red hood sang softly.\\" \\"This caperuza roja [red hood] keeps the sun from my face,\\" Isabel tells the coyote. The Spanish terms are defined in the glossary at the end of the tale. In keeping with its Hispanic twist, Isabel escapes from the malevolent coyote by pouring the basket of tamales and chile sauce she is carrying to her grandmother's into his mouth as he opens it wide to seize her. As the coyote runs away yelling, \\"Fuego! Fuego! [Fire! Fire!],\\" Isabel escapes to her grandmother's, where the two make more tamales.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	R1EU0TMPRXILBI	1932360379	882692814	It Disappears . . . (Soft Skull ShortLit)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	philosophical innovative graphic novel	IT DISAPPEARS by Nate Powell, Soft Skull Press, 71 Bond St., Brooklyn, NY 11217; [...] ammi@softskull.com. 2004. 78 pp. $9.99 trade paper, ISBN 1-932360-37-9. graphic novel. <br />     Powell's graphic, comic-book-like, panels of varying degrees of white and black convey the uncertain, shifting, grounds of existence. When the white predominates, there's an almost mystic feeling of tranquility. When the black predominates, there's a noir-like atmosphere. Most of the panels are in the middle ground of the proportion of the two colors. A man out camping alone in the wilderness when a snowstorm starts up meets a dog-like creature with a philosophical outlook. Identity, one's place in the universe, and modern society are among the topics the two take up as they search for shelter and other characters move in and out of the story. Powell's unpredictable illustrations and reflective dialogue present different angles on the perennial existential questions.	2004-09-05
US	53067931	RDFN5NCYZWQ81	1882349075	136133462	Kicking Depression's Ugly Butt: Tried and True Methods for Outsmarting Depression	Books	5	7	8	N	N	KICKING DEPRESSION'S UGLY BUTT	KICKING DEPRESSION'S UGLY BUTT - Tried and True Methods for Outsmarting Depression by Robert Westermeyer, Ph.D. Quick Publishing. 2004. 206+xiii pp. illustrations, charts, removable \\"coping cards\\". <br /> <br />     Westermeyer writes in a down-to-earth, good-humored style that helps individuals to understand their depression and work their way out of it, thus ending the cycle perpetuating depression and drawing those who suffer from it deeper into it. What Westermeyer's book accomplishes is giving an individual a perspective on depression, thus helping her or him to see that it need not be all-consuming. Once realizing this, an individual can begin to gain control over depression. Along with this perspective, the author relates various proven techniques enabling one to cope with depression, and over time overcome it. <br />     Westermeyer's approach to working with individuals suffering from depression has been introduced to some medical facilities, and the author has been recognized by other professionals in the field for his work in this type of treatment of depression. In Westermeyer's treatment, \\"patients are expected to practice [the] skills and by so doing, treat their depression.\\" In this innovative and effective treatment, depressed individuals are regarded more as collaborators with the psychologist or other medical professional than as patients in the traditional sense. This largely self-help approach Westermeyer relates is appealing to today's public with an interest in taking charge of their own health problems as well as the medical profession's adjustments to work more closely with patients as individuals who can play a major part in remedying their ailments. <br />     Keeping a journal, analysis of thoughts, social activities, motivation, and ways of keeping depression from recurring are among the topics included to help individuals learn how to get the upper hand on their depression. Westermeyer's well-paced, reader-friendly style is not only instructive, but also encouraging to the reader. It is apparent he is concerned about the reader's depression, and is sympathetically reaching out with advice and techniques he has seen alleviate depression in his own extensive experience. The recognition that the individual is the most important agent in dealing effectively with a depression extends to the inclusion of removable laminated \\"Cognitive Coping Cards\\" at the back of the book for an individual to carry with him or her to review in developing the beneficial perspective or refer to when experiencing a severe mood associated with depression. <br />	2004-09-03
US	53067931	R3Q7CSEMNE80G	0972100539	760830909	The Miracle of Death	Books	5	12	12	N	N	THE MIRACLE OF DEATH by Betty J. Kovacs, Ph.D.	THE MIRACLE OF DEATH by Betty J. Kovacs, Ph.D., Foreword by Anne Baring. Kamlak Center, Claremont, CA 91711-4716. 2003. appendices, notes, resources, bibliography, index.<br />     Betty Kovacs uses her Ph.D. in Comparative Literature and Theory of Symbolic Language from the University of California at Irvine and position as member of the Board of Directors of the Jung Society of Claremont, CA, to understand the mystery and the tragedy of the death of her son Pisti. Kovacs' husband Istvan shared in the journey to a profound understanding of this momentous event in their lives. \\"The Miracle of Death\\" has much broader appeal than its apparent New-Age topic. It will draw as well readers interested in grieving and grief studies, women's memoirs, family studies, and psychological and spiritual journeys and quests. Kovacs cites historical and mythological studies, individual experiences surrounding death, and cutting-edge science to support a radical change in the way we think about death and life.<br />     In the course of her revelations, Kovacs came to realize that her formal education and professional activity had imposed limitations on her understanding. She felt her customary ways of thinking and comprehending breaking down under the impact of her son's untimely death. Moving beyond her past experiences and learning, she became open to experiences and aspects of reality she had been blind to. A short passage of Christopher Fry quoted by Kovacs summarizes her journey and what she learned--\\"...there is an angle of experience where the dark is distilled into light....\\" Kovacs found that angle. In so openly, honestly, and sensitively relating her experience in assimilating the meaning of her son's death, Kovacs can also open the reader's life to ordinarily buried dimensions of existence and experience.<br />Henry Berry, book reviewer<BR>The Small Press Book Review	2003-04-09
US	53067931	RY2KJOMI9JFAB	097080220X	470168784	Hamlet One Voice	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hamlet One Voice	The experienced actor David I. Davies gives readings of 30 soliloquies and scenes from Shakespeare's &quot;Hamlet.&quot; Travis Dickerson's resonant music enhances the dramatizations. In addition to all of Hamlet's major soliloquies, Davies does a variety of scenes following the story line of the play and the cast of significant characters. Besides Hamlet, there's Horatio, Polonius, Claudius, and Ophelia. With the sharp expressiveness of Davies' readings, the listener can easily follow the development of the play and the inter-action of the characters.<br />     Davies gives a reading which is true to the original language, yet modern in tone and enunciation. Though the readings are faithful to Shakespeare's language, Davies' pacing and pitch is modern-so the listener follows the dialog as easily as if he or she were listening to persons talking on a TV program, for example. The high technical quality of the recording and the tape also contributes to the favorable listening experience. Because Davies' readings make the play so accessible, &quot;Hamlet One Voice&quot; could be used for classroom or individual student study of the play; although anyone interested in the play or exceptionally controlled and elucidating readings of literature would find this work rewarding.<br />Henry Berry, reviewer<BR>The Small Press Book Review	2002-03-20
US	53067931	R2CBQ71W6ATZ8W	093592910X	244433772	Golf's Mental Magic--Four Strategies for Mental Toughness	Books	5	3	5	N	N	developing the ideal frame of mind for golf	Golf1s Mental Magic - Four Strategies for Mental Toughness by Guy S. Fasciana, DMD, MEd, MS with contributions by Hale Irwin and Terry Dill, margin notes by Emlyn Aubrey. Health and Performance Associates. 2000. 246 pp.  trade paper (0-935929-10-X). illustrations, charts,  index.<br />Fasciana notes what every golfer learns sooner or later--&quot;You  don't have control over the other players and you don't have control over  course conditions. You do, however, have control over yourself.&quot; With  this in mind, this author who is a sports consultant for professionals and  amateurs gives learned advise on how a golfer can maintain control over  himself or herself to play an improved, and relaxing, game. Fasciana goes  into a lot of detail on every aspect of this subject--not only mental  exercises, but also physical techniques and even nutrition which can help  the golfer develop the right frame of mind for the game. His treatment is  so extensive that it goes into the right mental attitude for different  elements of golf--driving, pitching, putting--as well. One interesting  innovative touch is what looks like handwritten notations by PGA Tour Pro  Amlyn Aubrey in the margins or between paragraphs to comment on or  highlight parts of the text. This touch is not only helpful, but also shows  the thought that has gone into the book to make it relevant and  reader-friendly. There's been a lot of books on stress management and  relaxation techniques in general and for sports in particular lately. But  Fasciana's book for golfers is clearly stands out from these, and is just  what many in this sport are looking for whatever their level of  play.<br />Henry Berry<br />Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press  Book Review	2000-02-02
US	53067931	R2DYQ3ZAIK2A2Z	0965944557	575842623	Parenting, SportsMom Style: Real-Life Solutions for Surviving the Youth Sports Scene	Books	5	3	3	N	N	parents and children's sports	Between them, the authors have five children who have given them 23 years experience in seven different sports. In addition, Phillips has a degree as a registered nurse and an M.A. in Health Administration. Stahl  has a B.S. in Education and is a marketing consultant. They certainly are  qualified to write this book--and it shows. They take up issues directly  involved in the parent-child relationship and also issues such as injuries  and coaches which pertain more to the sport but can obviously have an  effect on a child. They review the role sports can have in a youngster's  development, and also advise parents how to learn about specific sports to  be able to understand what they require of a child and what a child is  experiencing. Nutrition with regard to different sports is also  discussed--a subject probably not given particular consideration by many  parents. The co-authors have a down-to-earth style in dealing with the wide  range of subjects of interest and concern to today's parents. An  outstanding, authoritative, yet practical and readable book which  understands the situation and concerns of parents in this area of their  children and sports.<br />Henry Berry<br />Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The  Small Press Book Review	2000-01-25
US	53067931	R2RS93GJQ0VB9D	094403182X	920820680	Thank You Son for Finding Me: A Birthmother's Story	Books	5	13	13	N	N	son finds birthmother for joyful reunion	Thank You,Son, For Finding Me - A Birthmother1s Story by BethKane. Aslan Publishing. 1999. 184 pp.<br /> Kane begins her story withher receipt in 1993 of a special-delivery letter from her son from a teenage pregnancy in 1947 whom she had put up for adoption and had not seen since then. At the time, Catholic nuns had told her, 3Forget it and get on with your life.2--and she had tried to follow their advice even though she could never completely keep thoughts of him out of her mind, especially when so many young men his age were being sent to war in Vietnam. Kane told her husband-to-be Charles about this episode in her past before they married. They had two daughters, one of whom died of cancer. This sadness in her life which intensified the author1s thoughts about the fate of her adopted son, although she never developed any intention of trying to find him.<br /> Her subsequent meeting changed her mind on the matter. She realized that it was inestimably beneficial emotionally, psychologically, and spiritually for both herself and her son to meet, and to develop a relationship they never had. And she realized that for the longest time she had been suppressing desires to have her son in her life. Kane found too that reunion with her son brought back memories of her younger years which she had to face. It was a time of anxiety, growth, and unprecedented happiness for Kane--a story she relates in an honest, plain, and deeply touching way.<br />Henry Berry<br />Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review END	1999-12-21
US	53067931	R3G37QJ5XXIZGE	0966994914	719054550	The User Manual Manual : How to Research, Write, Test, Edit & Produce a Software Manual (Untechnical Press Books for Writers Series.)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	how to write technology user guides for lay persons	The User Manual Manual - How to Reserch, Write, Test, Edit andProduce a Software Manual by Michael Bremer. UntechnicalPress. 1999. 314 pp.; 7&quot; x 10&quot; (0-9669949-1-4). charts, illustrations, appendices, bibliogaphy, index.<br /> In this second book for writers by Michael Bremer, he continues his guidance on writing about technical subjects for lay readers. Bremer's first book, Untechnical Writing, covered the field of technical writing in general; this The User Manual Manual, as the title says, deals with manuals for lay persons on how to use computer software. The importance of such manuals for computer users these days is apparent. Bremer makes the points that easy-to-follow manuals obviously make it easier for lay persons to operate computers using the software; which means that such manuals are clearly to the benefit of computer makers and software developers. And he makes the second point that easy-to-follow manuals reduce the support computer manufacturers and software producers have to provide to customers. As self-evident as these points are, Bremer wonders if companies in the computer and software business have grasped them--as probably do the majority of lay persons trying to make sense of most user manuals.<br /> With more than 20 years in technology industries, including manager of writing teams, Bremer knows the elements, slant, and aims of user manuals inside out, including how they are developed by teamwork among segments of a company and also the creativity and skills of individual writers. He gives experienced, detailed, relevant advice and directions for making a user manual satisfy its ultimate aim of being reader-friendly and therefore contributing to the place of computers and software in individuals' lives.<br />Henry Berry<br />Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review END	1999-12-21
US	53067931	R6JKTMUNRTTIB	0944031811	836575739	The Inner Lover: Using Passion As a Way to Self-Empowerment	Books	5	13	14	N	N	personal growth through love	The Inner Lover - Using passion as a way to self-empowermentbyValerie Harms. Aslan Publishing. 1999. 225 pp.<br /> Valerie Harmsunderstands that not all love is meant to result in a relationship with the person arousing the love in one.  Circumstances, including a relationship with someone else, may stand in the way. When such love is aroused, individuals often feel troubled from frustration, guilt, doubt, or a mixture of these and other emotions. But as Harms teaches, this need not be the case. As she says, &quot;When we become attentive to our fantasies and dreams [aroused by love], loving and not condemning our deepest wishes, we give them a chance to direct and empower our lives.&quot; Adhering to this principle, she teaches how to make such love a positive experience.<br /> In exploring this kind of love, Harms focuses on the self--how the self can maintain its wholeness and singular potential and be empowered by the love's creative, unpredictable forces.  This positive involvement with the love she explores not only fulfills one as a person, but also enhances one's place and value in all relationships.  Harms has one of the best understandings of love a reader can find. Among her previous books are &quot;Stars in My Skin/Nin, Montessori, Steloff&quot; and &quot;Unmasking: Ten Women in Metamorphosis.&quot;<br />Henry Berry<br />Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-12-21
US	53067931	R2QCUYXUH8U6SB	0966994906	562527228	Untechnical Writing - How to Write About Technical Subjects and Products So Anyone Can Understand (Untechnical Press Books for Writers Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	writing about technical subjects for lay readers	Untechnical Writing - How to Write About Technical Subjects and Products So Anyone Can Understand by Michael Bremer. Untechnical Press. CA. 1999. 227 pp. trade paper (0-9669949-0-6).charts; forms; appendices; bibliography; index.<br />Bremer learned the methods and principles of writing  he calls untechnical writing from 10 years experience as a writer and  manager in the entertainment software business, including working for the  company that produced the very successful SimCity computer game. Although  he calls this style untechnical writing, as the subtitle notes, it involves  technical subjects, particularly manuals for computers and software. He  does not simply apply the familiar precepts of good, serviceable, effective  business communications and other nonfiction writing to technical writing  in the computer field. Rather, Bremer deals specifically, and thoroughly,  with the varied sources and purposes of writing in this field; which he  sees as a new field of writing calling for the new approaches to writing he  expounds. He gives writers clear-headed, experienced guidance on how to  make different sorts of technical subjects comprehensible and applicable to  general readers. This is obviously an important task in today1s growing  technological society. Bremer1s timely manual is a highly-recommended guide  and reference for any writer wishing to write comprehensibly and  effectively about technical subjects for non-technical readers.<br />Henry  Berry, Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-11-22
US	53067931	R1YF7F2CXN45TT	0967468914	998236126	The Turnaround from 0-10 to 10-0	Books	5	4	4	N	N	inspirational high-school football tale	The Turnaround - From 0-10 to 10-0 by Chuck Mottley, with Sandra Ghost; Foreword by Bruce Snyder, Head Coach, ASU. Jubilee Publishing. 1999. 223 pp.  photographs, diagrams.<br />   You often hear that high-school sports prepare young persons for life's  challenges, setbacks, and successes. In The Turnaround, Chuck Mottley shows  you how this is so. In 1994, the football team the Chaparral Firebirds of  Scottsdale, Arizona, had a 0-10 record. Two years later under Ron  Estabrook's coaching leadership, the determination and example of several  leading players, and the commitment and support of the entire team, the  Firebirds achieved a 10-0 record which gave the team a chance at the state  championship.<br />     Mottley goes through the team's winning season  game-by-game relating the emotional mood of the players and coaches along  with highlights of each game, noting plays, strategy, and tactics. The  reader gets an inside look at the game of football as well as experiences  the team's feelings and circumstances in the course of the season. The  Turnaround is an engaging, encouraging story for readers of all ages that  gets to the essence of sport. In this day of heavy marketing of  professional and college teams featuring their often pampered superstars,  Mottley's tale offers a refreshing look--a reminder--at the important place  sports can have in the lives of individuals.<br />Henry Berry, Book  Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-11-15
US	53067931	RPRPYB8CVOCLB	0967109507	895957518	Financial Security for Women: Using Your Head and Heart to Achieve It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	encouring and practical financial advice for women	Financial Security for Women -  diagram, charts, glossary, resources, bibliography, index.<br />Financial planning for Ivins was not simply an  interest, but was a necessity. Divorced after 30 years of marriage, she  suddenly faced life on her own without any knowledge or experience  concerning basic money matters. But she learned quickly how to manage what  finances she had and put part of this to work for her--fortunately for  herself and also for others who can now make use of her lessons and  directions for getting oneself on a sound financial footing. Ivins became  so versed in financial management that she became a Certified Financial  Planner (CFP).<br />In this guide, she covers the tried-and-true principles  and practices of management of personal finances and also discusses  psychology and behavior for effective money management. The upbeat,  sympathetic, authoritative book not only gives the women readers it is  directed to confidence that they can manage their own personal finances,  but tells them how.<br />Henry Berry, Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The  Small Press Book Review	1999-10-27
US	53067931	R1MG3A0ZJENNJA	0967114500	804303552	Don't Worry Be Healthy!: How to Avoid Obsessing About Your Health	Books	5	11	11	N	N	timely medical self-help book	It's easy to see why Dr.Solomon has been named as the #1 primary-care doctor in the Boston area, in surveys conducted by Boston Magazine.  He has a commonsense, down-to-earth, yet authoritative style--which is evident in  this timely, self-help health guide.  He offers wise counsel and practical  advice for a range of topical medical concerns and interests, including  obesity, cancer, alternative remedies, and preventive measures.  With his  exceptional understanding, he deals with a person's emotional and psychological  states, as well as the physical aspects of the various conditions and illnesses  and the therapies, medications, vitamins, and treatments for them.  In the  self-help vein bolstered by his professional standing and two decades of  experience, Dr. Solomon proffers for readers uneasy about, or perhaps even  anxious over, various medical problems, a perspective on them that is  positive for their overall well-being while sensibly taking into account their  particular medical condition and their concerns.  Dr. Solomon's definition of  good health includes not worrying excessively about your health so you can enjoy  life fully, which is the healthiest condition of all.  He delivers a welcome  perspective for many reader's in today's health-conscious culture.<br />Henry  Berry, Book Reviewer Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-10-18
US	53067931	R3TWJA5EU7HRZD	1881425061	353165848	Guiding Young Children's Behavior: Helpful Ideas for Parents & Teachers from 28 Early Childhood Experts	Books	5	10	10	N	N	well-chosen parenting advice from experts	Guiding Young Children's Behavior: Helpful Ideas for Parents and Teachers from 28 Early Childhood Experts edited by Betty Farber, M.Ed. Preschool Publications. 1999. 329 pp. $24.95.trade paper.<br />     Farber's compilation  of parenting advice and tips is a notable, comprehensive handbook for  contemporary childrearing. The advice and tips blend the best of tradition  and the contemporary. The material knowledgeably selected by Farber gives  guidance for being actively and personally involved in the upbringing of  children while not becoming overbearing. The numerous innovative, relevant,  and practical tips from the experts give guidance for children on the  tried-and-true principles of self-control and consideration for others  without relying exclusively or excessively on strict, narrow discipline or  parental dictates. This is the valuable, timely core of Farber1s book. The  experts1 experienced, imaginative guidance is both  challenging--occasionally seemingly fun--and instructive, implying that  acceptable behavior need not be laborious or constricting.<br />     Each of  the chapters of Farber's book is a selection from the writings of one of  the number of early childhood experts dealing with a major activity or  concern of parenting. Editor Farber herself has much experience in the  fields of teaching and parenting, including publishing Parent and  Preschooler Newsletter and teaching and administration in early childhood  programs. For many parents and teachers, her book can bring enlightened,  productive solutions to seemingly insoluble problems and deadlocks of  childrearing.<br />Henry Berry, Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small  Press Book Review	1999-07-21
US	53067931	R3UG3CAG9BKL6X	1889242098	479948980	Learning from Hannah: Secrets for a Life Worth Living	Books	4	5	5	N	N	secrets of meaningful life revealed by wise woman	Learning from Hannah - Secrets for a Life Worth Living by William H.  Thomas, M.D. VanderWyk &amp; Burnham, MA. 1999. 240 pp. $21.95 hardcover.  illustrations. <br />Like a fable, Learning from Hannah divulges deep truths  about human nature while imparting a timeless moral message. The author  Thomas is so identified with his novel that its main characters have the  names of the author and his wife, Bill and Jude. Nearly losing their lives  when their sailboat capsizes in a storm while on vacation, Bill and Jude  survive by being swept to the island of Kallimos. There, they come under  the care of Hannah. While helping them to regain their strength, Hannah  teaches them a wisdom arising from a natural, communal way of life, the way  of life on Kallimos. The core of this way of life is the relationship  between elders and younger generations whereby the younger take care of the  older, who in turn impart their wisdom to them to make their lives richer  and more meaningful. Among the precepts Bill and Jude learn are &quot;Trust  in each other allows us the pleasure of answering the needs of the  moment&quot; and &quot;To give care to another makes us stronger&quot;.  <br />Thomas's novel is one of the ways he is publicizing his ideas about the  place of elders in society. Besides writing this book, Dr. Thomas founded  the organization the Eden Alternative to lead the way in this area. Also,  this summer (1999), the author, his wife, their five children, and his  parents will be traveling by bus across the U.S. to stimulate interest in  his timely ideas and proposals.<br />Henry Berry, Book  Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Revie	1999-07-16
US	53067931	R1QCE4JMNKG980	187941872X	924772997	The First Conglomerate: 145 Years of the Singer Sewing Machine Company	Books	4	11	14	N	N	the history and influence of the Singer Sewing Machine Co.	On the grounds of extensive research, Bissell makes the case that the Singer Sewing Machine Company was a leader in the industrialization leading to rising standards  of living for the masses of average persons, beginning in the U. S. in the  decades before the Civil War and continuing well into the 20th century. The  Company was a leader not only in developing the sewing machine providing  well-made, mass-produced clothing, but also in creating a large labor  force, implementing progressive employee and business practices, and  standing as a model for other companies formed in the course of  industrialization. Indeed, the Singer Sewing Machine Company was so  successful and so respected over a wide area of the globe that in the  language of many Third World countries, the word singer is used for the  noun sewing-machine and the verb to sew.<br />Bissell follows the history of  the Company mostly by profiles of its succession of presidents focusing in  their perspectives and practices as they faced different economic and  social circumstances in the long history of the Company. Singer1s  reputation and success suffered a severe setback in 1987 after a hostile  takeover by Paul Bilzerian, who was later indicted on tax and securities  violations. Only in the past five years or so has Singer been able to  recover from this and regain something of its former prominent position.  For following the Singer Sewing Machine Company from its founding until  today, Bissell1s history of this major American Company is the definitive  book on this subject.<br />Henry Berry, Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The  Small Press Book Review	1999-06-19
US	53067931	R19PD8VWSW7BSJ	0966979907	392282423	Meals and Memories: How To Create Keepsake Cookbooks	Books	5	21	21	N	N	how to create a family/genealogical cookbook	Meals and Memories: How to Create Keepsake Cookbooks by Kathy Steligo. Carlo Press, San Carlos, CA. 1999. 112 pp. $18.95 trade paper; 8-1/22 x 112. illustrations; resources; glossary; index.<br />An ideal book to tie in with the current rise in the interest in genealogy. In a user-friendly  format covering all of the basic considerations in a simplified, orderly  way, Steligo tells you how to begin and to expand a family cookbook. The  formatting includes visuals incorporating recipes, sample mementos, food  lore, and drawings which not only illustrate the guidance and tips, but  also give ideas for your own cookbook.<br />Beginning with selecting a theme  (e. g., desserts, camping, Christmas), tone, and style for the cookbook,  the author takes you through collecting and formatting the recipes which  are the basis of the book; and then putting these together and adding  memories and anecdotes from different individuals, colors or borders for  the page, visual elements (including perhaps photographs), and a cover to  make the book distinctive and especially appreciated by family  members.<br />One example of a special touch Steligo uses is a picture of an  uncle with a caption in italics noting his love for growing tomatoes with  one of his tips on growing them. In one section, she suggests how children  can become involved in creating a keepsake cookbook--what better way to  have them enjoyably learn about their heritage? Steligo ends her timely,  instructive guide with advice on how a 3community2 cookbook resembling a  family keepsake cookbook can be used as a fundraiser for a church, school,  team, or other organization.<br />Henry Berry, Book  Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-05-14
US	53067931	RX2CKMN736NBA	0964995034	741210204	Busy Peoples Low-Fat Cookbook	Books	5	11	11	N	N	tasty, easy-to-prepare low-fat meals	Busy People's Low-Fat Cookbook by Dawn Hall. Cozy Homestead Publishing, Ohio. 1998. 288 pp. hardcover, spiral-bound interior. illustrations; index.<br />Hall's cooking experience and imagination can make treats out of  the most familiar foods. Adding fat-free cream cheese, a fat-free butter  spread, and skim milk to mashed potatoes, she makes Mashed Potatoes Deluxe.  With the addition of a sauce of mustard, fat-free sour cream, and dill  weed, spring asparagus becomes especially tasty. Satisfying, filling  vegetarian chili is but one other of Hall's recipes among the 240 recipes  in her cookbook. Health-conscious individuals, especially ones looking to  control or lose weight, could not do better than to turn to Hall's numerous  healthful, easy-to-prepare meals. With each recipe, in addition to  preparation and ingredients, she notes time to prepare (under 15 minutes in  nearly every case) and calories, fat, cholesterol, and sodium. There's  recipes for every part of a meal, from appetizers through soups and entrees  to desserts. Hall was an aerobic instructor and facilitator for W.O.W.  (Watching Our Weight, which holds classes and provides information on a  low-fat lifestyle) whose enthusiasm for good health and eating right is  inspirational.<br />Henry Berry, Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small  Press Book Review	1999-04-21
US	53067931	R3HHMUATC5WGNS	0966940008	379116102	Out Of The Darkness: The Story of Mary Ellen Wilson	Books	5	26	27	N	N	historical, groundbreaking child-abuse case in 1800s	Out of the Darkness - The Story of Mary Ellen Wilson by Eric A. Shelman and Stephen Lazoritz, M.D. Dolphin Moon Publishing, CA. 1999. 342 pp. notes; index.<br />Out of the Darkness is not only the story of the abused  child Mary Ellen Wilson of the latter 1800s, but also the story of Fanny  Connor, her mother who abandoned her after the death of her husband in the  Civil War; Mary Connolly, the stepmother who cruelly abused the girl; Henry  Bergh, founder of the ASPCA, who anguished by Mary Ellen's case, founded  the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children; the judge who  presided over the court case of Mary Ellen, the journalist who covered it  for the NY Tribune, and other individuals who were involved in the matter  in various ways. The authors describe their book as dramatized history;  it's based on extensive research, while employing the techniques of  creative nonfiction, including scenes and dialogue, to bring Mary Ellen's  story alive. Shelman's experience as a screenwriter is evident in the  informative, revealing, and dramatic dialogue, pithy descriptive passages,  and brisk narrative. Lazoritz is a pediatrician specializing in the care of  abused and neglected children. He is also the director of the Child  Protection Center at the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin. The  collaboration began with an acquaintance over the Internet. Out of the  Darkness fills in considerable historical background on the timely subject  of child abuse in American society. Mary Ellen eventually went on to lead a  normal life, having two daughters who became school teachers.<br />Henry  Berry, Book Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-04-15
US	53067931	RTWGTLNIZPCKV	0966551303	147799219	The Missionary's Position	Books	5	4	4	N	N	humorous novel set in Caribbean; ideal summer reading	The Missionary's Position by Gary Buslik. Sunny Books, New York, NY. 1999. 300 pp. $12.95 trade paper.<br />The author claims to have gotten the inspiration for writing his humorous novel The Missionary's Position from  being hit on the head with a coconut while vacationing on a Caribbean  island. Set on two fictional Caribbean-like islands named Snow and St.  Ursula, the novel follows the adventures--misadventures--of a zany cast of  characters including the director of a local historical society, Philip  Doyle; the fantastically wealthy Roberta Gibbleman and her mischievous  daughter Wendy; and the comical despot Austin Sewer. The foil for setting  these and related characters scheming and vying with one another is the  competition between Doyle and Sewer to make their respective islands of  Snow and St. Ursula the leading tourist attraction. A travel writer turning  to fiction with this novel, Buslik hits just the right note in humorously  portraying the carefree, gay ambience of a Caribbean island vacation spot  and the casual, insouciant, dreamy but feckless behavior of its  inhabitants. Page after page his writing is fresh and  light-spirited--making The Missionary's Position ideal summer beach or  travel-cruise reading.<br />Henry Berry, Book Reviewer Editor/Publisher, The  Small Press Book Review	1999-04-07
US	53067931	R39WHAC4QDE9L5	0966669533	294078114	Looking For Friends In All The Right Places	Books	5	0	0	N	N	helpful, relevant, practical advice on making friends	Looking for Friends by Edward E. Ross; Foreword by John S. Hilkevich, Ph.D. Baxter Publishing, CA. 1999. 250 pp. forms; resources; appendices; bibliography.<br />Taking a commonsense approach--one free of the heavy  psychologizing and programmatic therapy customary with the self-help  genre--Ross gives helpful advice relating to the subject of making friends  in different familiar situations. Ross1s attention to certain problematic  issues and also circumstances pertaining to the individual desiring to make  friends--as opposed to simply spouting general attitudes or  prescriptions--are what makes his handbook especially relevant and helpful.  For example, Ross discusses how problems with addiction can interfere with  trying to make friends, and then goes into how to overcome these problems.  Problems posed by the personality trait of shyness is another topic Ross  similarly treats. This author also recognizes the bearing that  circumstances of one's life such as moving to a new location or just  entering retirement have on making friends--and he gives sensible advise  and offers resources on these sorts of considerations. Ross learned about  the worth and meaning of friendship the hard way: by staying in a bad  relationship for more than a decade. Imparting instructive anecdotes from  his own experience as well as from the lives of others he's known, and also  making use of lists of important points and brief questionnaires and forms  for taking stock of oneself and one's situation, Ross provides a handbook  that is at once empathetic and practical.<br />Henry Berry, Book  Reviewer<br />Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-04-07
US	53067931	R4P818T88IA13	096694321X	235355148	Antique Western Bitters Bottles (Best of the West)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	guide to collecting antique bitters bottles	The Best of the West, Antique Western Bitters Bottles - The art of collecting Antique Western Bitters Bottles by Jeff Wichmann. Pacific Glass Auctions. 1999. 132 pp. $29.95 trade paper; 8-1/2&quot; x 11&quot;. color  photographs; color illustrations; bibliography; index.<br />In the late  1800s-early 1900s, bitters were popular remedies for various kinds of minor  ailments; these days, many persons collect bottles for these bitters for  their decorativeness or value as antiques. The appeal of the hobby of  collecting the bitters bottles is evident from the many color photographs  of bottles showing their varied curved or squared shapes and golden, green,  and brown tints. Wichmann is an expert in this area of antiques whose  Introduction and other background material presents interesting historical  and social information and hones in on details of bottles. One section, for  instance, discusses the number of different kinds of tops and necks of  bitters bottles, with a related page of close-up photographs showing 15  different types of these. Besides the interesting and knowledgeable general  material on this popular avocation, Wichmann also provides historical  background and identification markings for about 100 different makes of  bitters bottles--e. g., Boggs Cottman German Tonic; Lash's Kidney and Liver  Bitters; Dr. Hostetter's Stomach Bitters. The colorful names alone are  enough to attract one to this hobby. As with the high-quality colorful  photographs of the bottles, color photographs of labels and ads for many of  the bottles for specific makes of bitters vividly capture their details and  color. An excellent introduction for the beginner, and catalog and price  guide for the advanced collector.<br />Henry Berry Book Reviewer  Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-03-22
US	53067931	R31T6UN8LFYF9Q	0916781453	797304343	CrowHeart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	modern-day characters set in backcountry of Wyoming	<br />In the settlement of the far West, some travelers would cut off the major trails to build houses and start farms and ranches in the rugged mountains and desolate plains of the interior of Wyoming known as  The Big Empty. The Big Empty is an appropriate metaphor for Gists first  novel about a group of descendants of original settlers, who were known as  crazies for leaving the main trials. The men and women are possessed by  an indefinable emptiness which they try at best fitfully to fill with other  individuals, with religion, with drink or sex, or with trying to connect to  the land. But instead of finding anything enriching, the individuals only  project their own emptinesses into these aspects of their lives, absolute  as their emptinesses are. Gist effectively evokes the various tones of  hopelessness in his characters and pictures their all-too-human, yet  ultimately thankless, efforts to find some meaning and direction. Set in  the stark, thinly, populated wilds of Wyoming, Gists CrowHeart starkly  portrays the passions, sorrows, hopes, and tragedies of his characters  untempered by ordinary society. This promising author is a recent graduate  of the U. of Alaska with an M. F. A. in Creative Writing who also teaches  writing.<br />review by Henry Berry Book Reviewer Editor/Publisher, The Small  Press Book Review	1999-03-07
US	53067931	R2Z2UL581BH3T0	0965683907	831249777	Running with the Tide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	once-in-a-lifetime sailing adventure in Pacific	Running with the Tide by Marlene B. Allen. Gimcrack Press, Mill Valley, CA. 1998. 406 pp. $16.95 trade paper. black-and-white photographs; maps.<br />    After 35 years of marriage, when Bob Allen retired, Marlene and her  husband finally got to take the long sailing cruise they had always dreamed  about. In a narrative variously folksy, lyrical, romantic, reminiscent, and  descriptive, Marlene Allen recounts this long voyage down the west coast of  California and Mexico, out to Tahiti and Hawaii, and back to California.  The joys of sailing, as well as its practicalities which can sometimes be  bothersome, are palpable in her open, personable, account. Her journal-like  narrative records as well as few alarming moments that came up along the  way. And more than just a tale of a memorable sea voyage, Running with the  Tide is a story about the rich later years of a long-lasting marriage. Many  readers will be pleased by this aspect, although the work can be followed  as an engaging, easy-to-read, and to some degree informative, account of a  long sail through a large part of the Pacific. In appendices, Allen treats  safety, equipment, preparation, and provisions for such a trip. An ideal  book for any sailer or boater, or gift for those planning such an  adventure; and ideal for summer reading.<br />review by Henry Berry Book  Reviewer Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-02-25
US	53067931	R3RDLAHWAY9619	0964330466	822974943	Freedom from the Press; A Personal Story of Libel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	one man's arduous legal struggle for justice against libel	Freedom from the Press - A Personal Story of Libel by Roger Hall. Maharatha Books, Middleburg, FL. 1998 (new edition). 334 pp. $16.50 trade paper.<br />Like the popular nonfiction book A Civil Action made into a movie,  Roger Hall1s Freedom from the Press is an absorbing account of an involved  lawsuit against a corporate powerhouse by an individual with important  personal interests at stake. This author1s case was a libel case against  the Houston Chronicle, which in 1991 ran a front-page article accompanied  by a photograph implying that Hall had once been a bona fide member of a  controversial New York cult rather than an unwitting recruit who had  ultimately tried to discredit it. Hall came under extraordinary pressure  because in a deposition he tied a local wealthy businessperson named  Douglas Wyatt to the cult. This was used by enemies of Wyatt to destroy his  reputation through the newspaper article. During one phase of his ordeal,  Hall felt his life was threatened. Hall1s small business shortly fell into  ruins, and he sunk into a severe depression. But he nonetheless managed to  carry out his lawsuit until after some setbacks that would have defeated  most persons, he prevailed in the end. Hall relates succinctly the legal  procedures and issues at stake, and takes you into his own emotional  turmoil. The reader holds his breath pulling for Hall against the powerful  interests set against him.<br />review by Henry Berry Book Reviewer  Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-02-19
US	53067931	R2TNQ60R6VZFMO	094403179X	908479167	The Gift of Wounding: Finding Hope and Heart in Challenging Circumstances	Books	5	4	4	N	N	regaining a positive attitude after personal difficulties	The Gift of Wounding - Finding Hope and Heart in Challenging Circumstances by Andre Auw, Ph.D.; published by Aslan Publishing; 204 pp., $13.95 trade paper.<br />     Each of Auw1s 20 chapters is an inspirational essay on a  stage of overcoming inner travail or external obstacles to maintain or  restore one1s sense that life is meaningful and holds desirable  possibilities. The chapters generally follow the path of first feeling a  sense of being wounded through reaching a higher stage of personal growth  by overcoming the wounding. Auw frequently goes beyond inspiration to give  the reader a perspective on adverse circumstances and occasionally offers  practical advice for dealing with these. The chapters incorporate  instructive episodes and lessons from Auw1s own life and examples,  teachings, and counsel from esteemed individuals from various fields and  different times. Among these varied individuals are Carl Rogers (Auw1s  mentor), Dr. Kubler-Ross, Tom Robbins, St. Teresa, Norman Cousins, and Pope  John. Most of the chapters close with a quote or short passage of wisdom by  one such individual or from a well-known spiritual text. In offering solace  and hope, Auw1s counsel also contains a realistic vein that distinguishes  it from much contemporary inspirational, New Age-ish, writing. For  instance, Auw recognizes that not all wounds can be neutralized or erased,  but that they are frequently dealt with by personal growth. While Auw does  follow the successive stages of the process of being wounded and healing,  he does not present a methodical, pragmatic self-help program, but rather  offers essays that are variously inspirational, meditative, instructive,  and practical.<br />review by Henry Berry Book Reviewer Editor/Publisher, The  Small Press Book Review	1999-02-19
US	53067931	R1D73YGXL67YBO	0944031765	269865742	What Happened to the Prince I Married : Spiritual Healing For A Wounded Relationship	Books	5	2	2	N	N	keeping a relationship vibrant from a woman's perspective	What Happened to the Prince I Married? - Spiritual Healing for a Wounded Relationship by Sirah Vettese, Ph.D.; published by Aslan Publishing; 204 pp., $14.95 trade paper.<br />     With testimonials from Marianne Williamson,  Deepak Chopra, and Jack Canfield, Vettese's self-help book in the area of  personal relationships holds out a lot of promise. By and large, it  delivers on this. Vettese goes beyond guidance on how a woman can keep a  relationship strong and vibrant to deal with her own, distinct, emotional  growth and desires for self-respect and security in the context of the  relationship. The coauthor of Lifemates - The Love Fitness Program for a  Lasting Relationship and co-producer of audiotapes on health, Vettese  teaches and leads seminars on relationships, spirituality, and health and  well-being. As the subtitle of this book of hers implies, it takes up  working through the pains and disillusions that are inevitable in a  relationship and at times are even caused by it. But more broadly, it deals  with the common vulnerabilities of the two persons in a relationship and  the end of how the relationship can last and even flourish given these.  With personal anecdotes, examples of individuals in relationships, and  humane, relevant counsel, Vettese covers many sides of this reality of the  vulnerabilities of the persons in a relationship. Thirty-five exercises for  dealing with these many sides are highlighted in boxes. Vettese sensitively  explores central realities that are troubling in most relationships and  often lead to their break up, offering wise counsel and practical advice on  how individuals, especially a woman, can deal with these so that their  relationship holds together.<br />review by Henry Berry Book Reviewer  Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-02-19
US	53067931	RERPHV6ZPHYZZ	096842970X	262882945	Internet Basics	Books	5	0	0	N	N	internet basics for beginners	Internet Basics without fear - Quick-Start Guide for Becoming Internet-Friendly in Just a Few Easy Steps; A Non-Technical Book for Non-Technical People by Shaun Fawcett, M.B.A. Final Draft, Montreal, Quebec  Canada. 1999. 106 pp. $11.95 trade paper ($16.95 CAN); illustrations;  charts.<br />     Readers will be thankful for Fawcett1s handbook simplifying  how to participate in the Internet. &quot;The whole point of this guide is  to provide the reader with the basics that one needs to know to become a  functioning Internet user, capable of performing the main tasks that most  people are interested in performing on the Net,&quot; the author tells the  reader. In addition to covering the basics of connection to and navigation  of the Internet, Fawcett gives directions for popular Internet features  such as email, chat rooms, and downloads of text or visuals. He also  outlines how to do a search for specific kinds of Web sites or information.       Although Fawcett1s handbook can be used strictly for its direct,  plainly-put technical guidance, the author does throughout, overtly in  early chapter, address readers confounded by 3technophobia.2 He helps  technophobes overcome feeling intimidated by clearing up certain myths  about computer technology and the Internet--e. g., &quot;Your privacy  cannot be invaded via the Internet unless you allow it to be&quot;;  &quot;You do not have to be a technical genius to use the Internet.&quot;       Whether dealing with psychological issues relating to computer  technology or technical matters, the author1s style is unfailingly  knowledgeable, relevant, straightforward, and simple as possible. This book  could be written only by an author who is very experienced with the  Internet and very skilled in communication. If you want to get started with  the Internet as quickly and easily as possible, get Fawcett1s notable  handbook for how to do so.<br />review by Henry Berry Book Reviewer  Editor/Publisher, The Small Press Book Review	1999-02-05
