US	53074851	R2GFRSH0HGA4XO	1579549543	792716559	Fantastic Voyage: Live Long Enough to Live Forever	Books	4	14	18	N	N	The secret new Methuselah . . .	Kurzweil is one of my favorite authors. I enjoyed his book on the future of evolution titled The Age of Spiritual Machines, and I highly recommend that book to you as well. This book is a must read for all who are interested in personal health. Even if you do not believe it is possible or desirable to live a VERY long life, you will likely agree that as you do age, you would prefer to be healthy right up to the end. If you do agree, then this book about the science behind radical life extension will be of interest to you. I hope you take the opportunity to get a copy of Fantastic Voyage to learn how to control through life style and eating habits all those things that concern us from heart disease and cancer to Alzheimer's disease.<br /><br />My criticism of the book is only that the authors are a bit \\"over the top\\" on what they are doing to extend their own health, and it is very expensive. Not everyone will be able to afford DNA analysis, weekly injections of supplements and 250 pills per day. Other actions that Ray takes are to drink six to eight cups of green tea per day and even more water on top of that. He walks every day and limits what he eats. All of this adds up to a self disciplined routine that the average person will not undertake to accomplish. Still, we can take from this what we can reasonably do while at the same time understanding that we could always do more to make our lives healthier and therefore happier.<br /><br />The book is written in a clear and conversational tone. The science is explained in terms that I, as a lay person, can understand. And the authors seem honest about the efficacy of the supplements they are recommending - meaning that they state whether or not \\"clinical testing\\" has been done or whether the information is more anecdotal.<br /><br />All in all, this is an excellent reference for those interested in enjoying a healthier life style and to improve their health as they approach senior years.	2005-05-03
US	53074851	RDJ697ILOQBHD	1883219507	950559041	Let's Get Real or Let's Not Play: The Demise of Dysfunctional Selling and the Advent of Helping Clients Succeed	Books	3	13	15	N	N	If they say it, it's gold . . .	This book is a definite must for those who are selling the intangibles of services to clients. Khalsa is blunt and too the point. For example: \\"There is no guessing.\\" He makes it very clear that we must drill down with our questions to find out exactly what the client/customer needs by way of solutions.<br /><br />By using the acronym \\"ORDER,\\" which stands for Opportunity, Resources, Decision Process, Exact Solution, and Relationship, Khalsa takes us through the logical development of a truly consultative selling process. The relationship with the customer becomes the engine that makes this process go - seeking to understand before trying to be understood. \\"If they say it it's gold. If you say it, it's sold.\\" And nobody likes to be sold.<br /><br />Khalsa also uses the metaphor of green, yellow, and red lights to explain how to know when to stop and question more deeply. His point is to find out early in the game if the prospect is real - otherwise, don't play. Khalsa goes over some of the usual techniques for obtaining information (Match and lead, feeling questions, etc.), but does so in a very conversational style.<br /><br />I decided to also listen to the audio tapes of this book. The author read the excerpted book and it was very interesting to hear how he emphasized different points. I found it very instructive to hear Khalsa's take on his own work and to hear the author's voice. It wound up actually clarifying some of the portions of the book which I at first found to be a bit different from my own sales training. All in all, this will be a welcomed addition to my library.	2005-05-03
US	53074851	R3FWU40IZXQ03B	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Intolerance of monotheism	I was not disappointed in this volume by Karen Armstrong, one of my favorite authors. It was interesting going back to an earlier book after reading her latest works. While this book is long and a bit tedious for a non-history buff such as I, it was definitely worth the effort.<br /><br />This is truly a challenging read. Armstrong covers a huge amount of history (about 4,000 years) with densely packed words over approximately 400 pages. The perspective is balanced with insights from many of the world religions and how they may have influenced each other or developed independently. While many of the world religions are mentioned, the focus is on \\"people of the book;\\" Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Armstrong points out that \\"Today we have become so familiar with the intolerance that has unfortunately been a characteristic of monotheism that we may not appreciate that this hostility toward other gods was a new religious attitude.\\"<br /><br />Armstrong discusses the similarity of developing thought throughout the Muslim world as well as the Christian world and how they tracked through history. She declares that \\"Christian fundamentalists seem to have little regard for the loving compassion of Christ,\\" and points out that \\"Muslim fundamentalists have toppled governments and either assassinated or threatened the enemies of Islam with the death penalty. Similarly, Jewish fundamentalists have settled in the Occupied Territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip with the avowed intention of driving out the Arab inhabitants, using force if necessary.\\" She sees this type of religiosity as a retreat from God.<br /><br />All in all, after a careful and thoughtful reading of this excellent history of the all too human effort to define god, a person will find themselves understanding the sad state of affairs we see today in human spirituality. It's not a pretty picture, but one definitely worth contemplating.	2005-03-25
US	53074851	R1ELG4CDBXR289	0684846659	704670488	The 8th Habit: From Effectiveness to Greatness	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Break the Habit	According to Keven Rollins, \\"Getting results in large companies is a very rare skill and this book captures how to do it. The guidance provided here will prove invaluable for leaders who are trying to drive tighter execution in their organizations.\\"<br /><br />My reading confirms Rollins statement despite the fact that in the back of my mind I kept thinking about the marketing reasons for Covey writing this book. Still, the information within is useful and builds on the seven habits of highly effective people.<br /><br />The DVD provided with the book would, I believe, make things easier for folks who learn better visually rather than reading text. While this was a nice touch, it didn't add too much to my understanding of what Covey was trying to convey; but great marketing. The book would have been even more effective if it was half as long. Covey spends too much time rehashing the old habits information.<br /><br />Covey in his usual conversational style, encourages the reader to \\"Find your voice and help others find their voice.\\" In some ways, this seems a labored metaphor. Others have said this more succinctly with \\"Follow your Bliss,\\" or \\"Discover your Passion.\\" Covey takes great pains to bend his \\"lessons\\" into the \\"find your voice\\" analogy, and often times the story seems disconnected from the message.<br /><br />Yet for those who found much meaning in the Seven Habits, this book will add to the rich imagery that Covey created in his earlier book. There are new ways of looking at how we are in relationship with each other and with ourselves. All in all, a book worth reading, though as I said, it could have been quite a bit shorter.	2005-03-19
US	53074851	R22QFEF42AY5X7	0743201140	877422266	Now, Discover Your Strengths	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Play to your strengths	I have taken many of the various \\"quadrant personality tests\\" that evaluate your responses to the various questions and then tells you your personality type. So I didn't hold out much hope of learning a lot that was new when I picked up this volume. However, I was pleasantly surprised by a couple of things. First, there is a password assigned to each book. With that password you are able to access a web site, establish an account, and answer a questionnaire which does in fact give you your top five strengths.<br /><br />But what is most useful is that armed with the survey results and this book, you are not only able to know your strengths but also how to build on those strengths. What is new here, is that the authors break the mold of \\"work on eliminating your weaknesses.\\" Instead, the advise us to pay attention to building up our strengths, to always find ways to use those strengths instead of worrying so much about our weaknesses. Sure, we do have to try and mitigate any negative attributes we may have in order to work with others, but the really successful person will work to play to his or her own strengths.<br /><br />You will learn why strength is defined as \\"consistent near perfect performance in an activity.\\" You will see why it makes sense to \\"manage around your weaknesses.\\" And you will be given clear, concise  guidelines on how to manage others through their strengths and help them manage around their weaknesses. I will definitely be using many of the principles and ideas put forth in this book as I go about helping my clients shape their corporate cultures and improve their effectiveness.	2004-12-20
US	53074851	R3K18I6PY1YJC9	0975408801	74003217	Vision to Reality: Making Governance Work for You, Second Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Making Governance work for you . . .	I first met Tom Troiani at a Senior Executive forum several years ago. Our paths have continuously crossed since then. I received an early copy of his new book with a request to review it and give feedback. I was only too happy to do so since I knew that Tom had intended to use some of my material on ethics as a business process.<br /><br />Troiani has organized this book in a logical sequence which allows the reader to build on the foundations set by earlier chapters. The information flows from Governance to Goals, then Cultural Alignment, followed by Communications and Controls. Finally we get to Reality - which ties together all the previous work into a vision for practical success.<br /><br />Troiani uses stories from practical experience to illustrate how the point being made \\"looks and feels\\" in the real world. The practical experience comes from his years as a Business Consultant and Project Manager. This is definitely a book meant to be on your \\"working reference shelf.\\" While it is straight forward in style and relatively easy to read, it is non-the-less chock full of useful, practical information that you can put to work immediately to make your vision a reality.	2004-12-20
US	53074851	R2BQH6D5ZNYCCW	0446527556	170610624	What Clients Love: A Field Guide to Growing Your Business	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Send signals, not noise . . .	This great little volume was recommended to my by a client who, on recommendation, said that if I really wanted to know about her philosophy on marketing and building her business, this book would provide the answer. Well, if she indeed does practice what's in this volume, she will have a great company soon.<br /><br />Beckwith's book is easy to read, full of great ideas and has excellent examples from successful and not so successful companies that we all know. He explains why every thing we do is really a service. Even if we have a product to sell. And we come to see why every service needs to be improved if we are to build great companies. He explores how unusual names get you noticed and remembered. And more importantly for us today, he explains why the market is inexorably moving to the rise of invisibles and intangibles (services not material products).<br /><br />There are a great number of suggestions that will stick with the alert ready. Suggestions such as; \\"Edit your message until everyone understands it,\\" or \\"Cut all the fat. Then ask: Does the muscle that remains have power?\\" All in all, this has been a very useful and instructive read. While not everything was new, there certainly was a new view of the challenges facing our businesses today.	2004-12-20
US	53074851	R39JIY8BI7SFK4	0062508865	527800309	Muhammad: A Biography of the Prophet	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Islam - create a good and just society.	Karen Armstrong is a leading commentator on religious culture. Her best selling books, A History of God and Buddha received excellent reviews. Having read Buddha, I was looking forward to Muhammad, and I was not at all disappointed. Somehow, I missed reading A History of God, so I will attend to that next.<br /><br />\\"Muhammad had great spiritual as well as political gifts - the two do not always go together - and he was convinced that all religious people have a responsibility to create a good and just society.\\" With this statement, early on in her book, Armstrong sets the tone for an objective look at the third of the Abrahamic religions. With clear logic and supportive historic facts as well as contextual interpretations, she lays before the reader the opportunity to understand the struggles of the Islamic faith.<br /><br />Armstrong takes us through the development of Muhammad from his early days as the enemy of the establishment in Mecca, to his firm conversion to a man of al-Llah, through wars and political intrigue to, finally, the death of the Prophet. Throughout her journey through Muhammad's history, Armstrong enlightens us and helps us sort out fact from fallacy.<br /><br />The picture of Islam that emerges is one that belies all the turmoil and hand wringing over the concerns of terrorists who continue to use religion to obtain their political ends. Instead, Muslim rulers agree to be held accountable for their actions, and ask their followers to \\"put them right\\" if they do not do well by their people. I encourage all who wish to understand the complex issues behind the turmoil and violence of today's world to put this excellent book on their reading list.	2004-09-26
US	53074851	RZM2BUGAJTU6M	0471569755	245248063	Manager's Guide to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Improving Internal Controls to Prevent Fraud	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Busting the Sarbanes-Oxley myths!	Boards of all shapes and sizes are wondering about the affect that Sarbanes-Oxley act will have upon their operations, accountability, and liability. But what about the managers running the day-to-day operations? Mr. Green kept his promise to \\"introduce groundbreaking and practical 'Control Smart' approach that not only meets the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, but also alerts you if operational controls stop working or are otherwise compromised.\\"<br /><br />While larger companies can afford to spend millions of dollars to implement control system monitoring tools, managers of small to mid-sized companies can be unsure of how to move forward if their budgets can't accommodate expensive advisors and systems. Mr. Green tells us in a forthright and clear manner that we must not depend on others to audit accountability into our reporting systems any more than we are able to test reliability or quality into our products. He places responsibility for our transparent transactions squarely on the shoulders of every manager and every employee throughout the organization.<br /><br />The \\"Control Smart\\" approach to understanding where we need to make transformational changes and where we can live with transitional changes is easy to understand even as it is complex and difficult to execute. But we must all attempt to do so. Green insists that we can \\"walk our talk by taking the culture of our companies seriously. We are able to create positive values as company objectives and appropriately compensate those who uphold the company image.\\" In this well written book, you will find the answer to just what it is that managers today need to do to implement the spirit and the law of Sarbanes-Oxley.	2004-09-26
US	53074851	R2OIOZDTUWRT5W	0691095523	527659211	Quantum Generations: A History of Physics in the Twentieth Century	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Physics in a nutshell . . .	Quantum Generations is a history of physics in the twentieth Century. What a pleasure to have the history put into perspective and all in one place. From fundamental theories to particle discoveries, to the growth and progress physics and other sciences have given our society, this book keeps our interest. Those who enjoy physics or history will find this book compelling.<br /><br />Ever wonder what people mean when they are talking about \\"unification theory?\\" How about Quantum Cosmology? Well, you can get an excellent overview of these topics in Kragh's book. To further assist the reader, the appendix lists, for each chapter, relevant books for additional study.<br /><br />I have found the information here to fill in the gaps that were left from my own engineering training and recent self-directed learning. Kragh's book will definitely be on my reference shelf as I continue to try and understand where we are heading with science and technology these days. But most of all, I hope books such as this might inspire our young people to decide to matriculate in the sciences so that we can be assured of continued increases in our knowledge of the universe.	2004-09-26
US	53074851	R2NI838QCIHUEY	1578517761	888194516	Back to the Drawing Board: Designing Corporate Boards for a Complex World	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A sane approach to Shaping the Corporate Culture	Carter and Lorsch have noted that \\"around the world, scandals and company failures have provoked a storm of criticism and well-meaning reforms. In response, a variety of 'best practices' have emerged, but can such ad hoc adjustments fundamentally change the capacity of boards to provide good governance?\\"<br /><br />I attended a Forum for Corporate Director's meeting featuring Professor Lorsch from Harvard Business School - it was an outstanding morning filled with additional insights, confirmations, and new ideas concerning corporate governance. This excellent book extended that rewarding experience and will likely be a constant reference in my corporate governance work. Carter and Lorsch have extensive research (included in appendices) behind their suggestions for change in corporate boards. In a refreshingly clear writing style, they expose the gap between theoretical board design and the practical results of board design. Further, they acknowledge that these gaps cannot be closed completely, nor can they be legislated out of existence. Instead, as always, we must rely on the women and men who sit on boards to have a deep understanding of their mission, the boards mission, a commitment to integrity, and knowledge of the workings of their executive suite.<br /><br />Back to the Drawing Board is laid out in a logical manner, and approaches this complex issue of properly designing boards in an equally logical manner. The face, head on, the issue of increased time and energy that will be required of new board members. The clearly address the issue of independent directors and squarely address the advantages and disadvantages of independent directors versus executive directors. They also address the concerns of the executive director who, in many respects is required to sit in judgment of her boss. Perhaps most refreshing is the concern that we not throw the baby out with the bath water, that we not think that Sarbanes-Oxley is the complete answer, and that we not expect a \\"one size fits all\\" board structure. Rather, we must do the hard work of defining a particular board's role, redesign accordingly, and rethink the processes, practices and policies of our decision makers.<br /><br />This book is a must read for anyone involved in corporate governance whether they are on a board, aspire to be on a board, consult to those responsible for corporate governance or are a member of the \\"c\\" suite. Thank you Mr. Carter (of the Boston Consulting Group) and Professor Lorsch (Harvard Business School) for this excellent work.expect a \\"one size fits all\\" board structure. Rather, we must do the hard work of defining a particular board's role, redesign accordingly, and rethink the processes, practices and policies of our decision makers. <br /> <br />This book is a must read for anyone involved in corporate governance whether they are on a board, aspire to be on a board, consult to those responsible for corporate governance or are a member of the \\"c\\" suite. Thank you Mr. Carter (of the Boston Consulting Group) and Professor Lorsch (Harvard Business School) for this excellent work. <br />	2004-09-04
US	53074851	R2DE5500V1CYDX	0974511102	387528634	Making Work Work (Making Life Work Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	We see the world we describe	Mr. Hunter has indeed put together a book which is a \\"Leader's Guide to Creating an Extraordinary Organization.\\" I knew I was in for a treat when, as is my custom, I flipped through this book before settling down to read it in earnest, and came across the statement that, \\"It's all a conversation,\\" and if you randomly walked into most companies and ask the employees, 'What's the company's vision?' the most common answer will be 'to make money.' And if you ask them, 'To make money for whom?' the answer will likely be 'for the owners, of course.' \\" I wasn't mistaken. Hunter pulled it all together by first describing the existing model, explaining why it doesn't work, then giving us a new model to consider.<br /><br />In this small volume you will learn about the different listening styles which perpetuate the existing dysfunctional model we all tend to use. You will see how that model is surely not suited for our post-modern world. You will find a new model based on real relationship building. But perhaps the most refreshing thing for me was Hunter's unabashed statement that one is the source of what one sees. That is to say, there is no one truth, but rather only our perceptions. Hunter says it this way, \\"No, it's not the truth; it's only your truth! We don't describe the world we see-we see the world we describe!\\"<br /><br />Hunter's work is compelling, easily read, and straight to the point with real life examples and case studies. I might have found it a bit easier to follow if he had provided some hints on where to find some of the material that he referred back to from time-to-time. I didn't always remember the details when he referred me to a previous case, and it would have been helpful to have a hint, such as what chapter to go back to in order to refresh the details. But that is a small complaint considering all the good I got from reading the book. All in all, a fine piece of work and well worth your time to read. And follow through with the exercise at the end of chapter two, you will be surprised I bet.the end of chapter two, you will be surprised I bet.	2004-08-15
US	53074851	R315UE59G3J1YY	0684856360	866488091	Permission Marketing: Turning Strangers into Friends and Friends into Customers	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Thanks for asking . . .	Mr. Seth Godin, V.P. Direct Marketing at Yahoo!, tells us how to turn strangers into friends and friends into customer in the excellent book on how to be successful in marketing your products and services. I can only hope that every SPAM marketer, direct mail marketer and fax-blast marketer reads this book. Perhaps if they do, we will all have a lot fewer useless intrusions in our lives.<br /><br />The bottom line of this very well written and entertaining book is that Godin advises us that \\"The goal is to avoid surprising the consumers and interacting with them by sending only messages they expect.\\" Those of us who were trained in consultative selling techniques will recognize much of what Godin advocates, but he packages even these \\"old ideas\\" in such a way as they are now usable in the new world of internet communications and e-commerce.<br /><br />Godin gives us the logic behind what most of us have intuitively decided is true - TV advertising doesn't work, direct marketing (as done today) is a waste of time and money, we are squandering our internet marketing opportunity, and we are alienating potential long-term relationships. Godin outlines for tests for permission marketing which, by definition, offers consumers incentives to accept advertising voluntarily. Permission Marketing must: 1. encourage learning relationships with your customers. 2. track the people who have given you permission to communicate with them. 3. provide marketing curriculum to teach people about your products/services. And 4. allow you to deepen your permission to communicate with those people in your permission marketing database.	2004-08-08
US	53074851	R2BTD8M1UKT0ST	0334027314	143211401	Religion of Being	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Being? Who can say?	Don Cupitt is a Senior Fellow of Emmanuel College in Cambridge. In this excellent book, he grapples with the relationship between language and non-language, and along the way, he somehow manages to get to a spiritual approach to human existence. Cupitt proposes that we have &quot;created vast protective ideologies of denial, as if we have found the obvious truth of our own situation quite unbearable, and have been willing to buy absolutely anything that promises to deliver us from it.&quot; This understanding has caused me to re-think my own situation and how I am protective of &quot;my world view&quot; and how I fit into the scheme of things. By understanding that the language model to which I pay attention shapes that world view, it becomes obvious that &quot;being&quot; cannot be until I shed, or at least live in an experience as much outside that model as possible.<br />Of course, all this reminded me of my Taoist studies and how that Tao which can be named is not the real Tao. And that we create opposites and limit the experience when we name things. There can be no &quot;good&quot; without &quot;evil,&quot; etc. These concepts are very difficult to understand, and certainly they are not easily explained in the very language which we are want to leave behind! Perhaps the dilemma set up in the very last of the book is best to explain the difficulty in getting this all in orderly thought: &quot;To the philosophy of the future, and to the religion of the future we offer the formula: non-language is Being. And Being - what's that? Answer: Nobody can say, but this book was meant to be a sort of poem in praise of it.&quot; To which I say, great poetry, indeed.	2004-07-18
US	53074851	R1NEMO5DR8XB3G	0944344836	607977974	Christian Faith at the Crossroads	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Geering gets it right, others must.	Lloyd Geering is one of my favorite theologians and he did not let me down with this &quot;map of modern religious history.&quot; Through a carefully documented and well thought out logical progression, this professor emeritus  of religious studies at Victoria University leads the alert and open minded reader to an understanding of where religion stands today and how we have come to this place. He starts by acknowledging that religion is dealing with a changing world. &quot;Because, as human beings, we are at the very centre of modern change, and have the most to gain or lose by the direction it takes, we are in no position simply to ignore it once we have come to recognise [sic] its existence.&quot; He then goes on to build a case for the world being in the second threshold of cultural change in response of faith to ultimate issues which we call religion. This second threshold is now encircling the globe.<br />Geering's clear writing style and excellent logical progression soon draws the reader into an understanding that &quot;Much modern atheism, for example, is a protest, in the interests of truth, against false religious beliefs and superstitious practices.&quot; The case is solid and the challenge, then, for people of faith, is to develop a world view that is in agreement with all the knowledge that humankind gathers. But the case is not made by appealing to &quot;faith,&quot; or by threatening hell and damnation; no, the case is made with clear-eyed logical views of the future grounded in a deep understanding of the history of the religious institutions of the world and a profound understanding of the human's need for a sense of meaning.<br />I recall having the same feeling of optimism, compassion, and prophetic understanding of our human predicament as I sat at dinner with Professor Geering some years ago. His conversation was compelling, logical, and inclusive of those at our table. His book approaches this sensitive subject with the same compassion and love of the religious path as I sensed that evening. Still, his is a tough love and he calls the game as he sees it. He notes that we must accept that we are alone in this venture. Perhaps this is best summed up in his own words: &quot;People must re-learn what it means 'to live by faith alone.' Humans now have to live without the divine and other supernatural props thought to exist in the past. There are no divinely revealed truths. There are no absolute and solid-rock certainties. The throne of heaven is empty. Indeed there is no heaven. This life is all there is. Moreover, with regard to the future of human existence on this planet, humans are now required to play the role they once attributed to an external deity.&quot; Indeed. Perhaps if more recognized our situation for what it is, we'd be better stewards of the earth and each other.e of the religious path as I sensed that evening. Still, his is a tough love and he calls the game as he sees it. He notes that we must accept that we are alone in this venture. Perhaps this is best summed up in his own words: &quot;People must re-learn what it means 'to live by faith alone.' Humans now have to live without the divine and other supernatural props thought to exist in the past. There are no divinely revealed truths. There are no absolute and solid-rock certainties. The throne of heaven is empty. Indeed there is no heaven. This life is all there is. Moreover, with regard to the future of human existence on this planet, humans are now required to play the role they once attributed to an external deity.&quot; Indeed. Perhaps if more recognized our situation for what it is, we'd be better stewards of the earth and each other.	2004-07-18
US	53074851	R3OXX6JE0NY0K0	0743232763	176316738	Killing the Buddha: A Heretic's Bible	Books	4	14	15	N	N	In celebration of heretics	This often times hilarious but always serious journal of a spiritual journey across America in search of Buddha is worth reading. The book is a collection of experiences, impressions, and encounters with reality as the authors travel across the American continent looking for the various incarnations of Buddha along the way.<br />The religious community has nothing to fear from the work of Manseau and Sharlet. They do not attack any religion, but rather they celebrate the spiritual venture many of us seem to be working toward. At the same time, they have an incredible collection of stories to keep us open minded about where we might encounter our own Buddha. If you don't have time to travel America, grab this book, sit back, and kill the Buddha vicariously.	2004-07-18
US	53074851	RW77XIVH29J4D	1841953822	560216613	Doubts and Loves: What Is Left of Christianity	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Three things left . . .	Richard Holloway writes a very compassionate and air-tight case for dragging Christianity kicking and screaming into the modern world. Holloway recently stood down as Bishop of Edinburgh, but he has not forgotten all that he has experienced as one of the most outspoken and best-loved figures in the modern church. I believe this book is another of his many attempts to get religion back on the right track. And, it was a natural to pick this up after reading his last book, Godless Morality.<br />In this book, Holloway successfully argues that Christians must reclaim the spirit of Jesus that: challenges tyrannous absolutes, the angry pity and endless challenge of social hope, and the incredible capacity for forgiveness. These three elements are what remain of a Christianity that is of use to the modern human enterprise. The conclusion Holloway reaches about why he wrote this book is that: &quot;a liberating truth underlies it. I have come to believe passionately that we should treat a belief as a 'habit of action' rather than as an accurate representation of metaphysical reality, to quote Charles Sanders Peirce.&quot; This pragmatic approach to Christianity allows for a world view that is lest dogmatic, violent, and judgmental. It is refreshing to say the least.<br />There are, I think, many of us - Christians or other faiths or even non-believers - who will applaud Holloway's conclusion that even though it is a bit late to have discovered it, there is still time to dismantle all the judgmental and hateful words we have built for Christ and simply tried to follow him, preferably in silence. AMEN.	2004-07-18
US	53074851	R1XS9Y592EFOF3	1400042216	392206348	Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Political decision maker's required reading . . .	Why Liberals will win the battle for America is the subtitle for Mr. Reich's latest book. A month or so ago, I was privileged to hear him discuss this book and his findings at a very large gathering. The response to his presentation was one of support and encouragement. Yet, while certainly liberals come to hear Mr. Reich, I happen to know that there were many &quot;conservatives&quot; in the audience and they too were applauding. Why is that? What is the appeal to conservatives?<br />I would like to think that the appeal is simply one of, well, REASON! It may also be that the old labels no longer apply to the average American. It may well be that Republicans, Democrats, Green Party, Libertarians, and those who decline to disclose any party affiliation all have come to understand that things are too complex for sound bites and that reason must prevail. They may be finally getting the message that we are all in the same boat together and so we must work together with respect and compassion. For those who embrace reason, compassion, and a sense of connectedness, this book will provide much with which to agree, and will provide provocative ideas with which we might reasonably disagree and debate.<br />Reich certainly doesn't shy away from taking a position, regardless of who's toes he might crunch. For those who believe that globalization is killing jobs he has this message: &quot;Every task that's repetitive-anything that can be done more cheaply by automated machinery or computer software or by a person laboring in a poor country-is no longer going to be done by Americans at American wages. Period.&quot; For those who would continue to ignore the growing separation of the haves and the have-nots, he has this message: &quot;In America in the twenty-first century, real prosperity is shared prosperity. That's what we are losing rapidly, and that's why Radcons are wrong and their thinking is dangerously obsolete.&quot; Radcons? Yes, Mr. Reich is not above taking his shot at the Radical Conservatives he believes are creating a situation of further economic stratification and therefore internal strife in America. This book is definitely good reading for all of us, regardless of the label put on us and regardless of whether or not we agree with everything Mr. Reich has to say. The book is truly based on reason. I hope all political decision makers find the time to read &quot;Reason, why Liberals will Win the Battle for America.&quot; It should be required reading for us all.at the Radical Conservatives he believes are creating a situation of further economic stratification and therefore internal strife in America. This book is definitely good reading for all of us, regardless of the label put on us and regardless of whether or not we agree with everything Mr. Reich has to say. The book is truly based on reason. I hope all political decision makers find the time to read &quot;Reason, why Liberals will Win the Battle for America.&quot; It should be required reading for us all.	2004-07-18
US	53074851	R1DH7201VUFT2Y	1932632131	40391073	Strategic Thinking: A Four Piece Puzzle	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A puzzle no more . . .	When I received this book from Mr. Birnbaum, I was immediately excited, intrigued, and impatient to get to the reading. For several years now, I've been working with Bill on various projects for the Association of Professional Consultants and I've had the pleasure of reading his bi-monthly Newsletter. So I was familiar with his writing and speaking style, which is why I was so interested in getting to his new book.<br />I wasn't disappointed. This book is written in Bill's warm, down-to-earth style, giving the reader the impression that they are spending quality one-on-one time with a senior consultant and coach. Birnbaum's unconventional wisdom comes through in this most readable book on Business Strategy. How often do you hear someone say that it's &quot;okay to be mediocre?&quot; Well, Bill let's you know that as long as you are excelling at those few important strategic goals, it's okay to be mediocre at everything else. Refreshing, isn't it? Honest, straightforward thought.<br />Bill continues in the same vein to give us practical advice on process and procedures. Not only does he share with us what we might consider doing, he goes about explaining how we might do it. Most of us in the consulting business are willing to share what we believe you should do, it's when we get to the &quot;how&quot; that we start issuing proposals and contracts! But throughout this book, Bill shares with us the how as well as the what and the why!<br />Besides reinforcing some of the things we know, such as &quot;focus on doing the right things more than on doing things right,&quot; we are treated to lively and real life examples and stories exemplifying the strategies Bill lays out. As you would expect, the book is laid out in four sections, one for each of the major puzzle pieces - focus, process, people, markets. There is a very useful index as well, and some of the best information in the book can be found in the Appendix, so don't skip them! He keeps our interest up and he delivers on his promise to - &quot;steepen your growth curve, brighten your profit picture, and help you to lead your management team.&quot; I highly recommend you put this book on your must read list!ivers on his promise to - &quot;steepen your growth curve, brighten your profit picture, and help you to lead your management team.&quot; I highly recommend you put this book on your must read list!	2004-05-03
US	53074851	R1UOIDEKZ4VKNG	0974499005	765899228	Profit from the Power of Many: How to Use MasterMind Teams to Create Success (Cheetah Express Professional Achievement Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Neural Networks Made Easy . . .	Ever want to build a massive parallel super-computer? How about one comprising the best information processors we know - the human brain. How about a Mastermind Group!<br />Natalie Brecher's book is one of those \\"gems\\" that you find from time to time that is a quick read, but chock full of wisdom and insight. She has captured and made accessible the concept of synergy in a real Mastermind Team, and given us a step by step instruction manual to building our own team.<br />In clear language and forthright thought, Ms. Brecher gives us the 8 steps, the advantages for each step, and the pitfalls that await us if we are unaware. She eloquently makes the case for why we should even consider a Mastermind Team, then goes about helping us to know that we too can form such a team.<br />My Mastermind Team was formed in much the same way Ms. Brecher describes in her book. It has been an invaluable asset in my business. And in the spirit of full disclosure I must confess that Natalie is part of that Mastermind Team. What she has given to the readers of this excellent book is real, based in fact, and founded on experience. I highly recommend that you create a Mastermind Team and that your team read and understand what Natalie freely shares with you!	2004-04-18
US	53074851	R2X7JN42H5V6Q9	1931866007	685979228	Conversations with Millionaires: What Millionaires Do to Get Rich, That You Never Learned About in School!	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Open secrets . . .	Exactly the book for our fast-paced lives lived in the headline modern world. Litman and Oman have pulled together transcripts from the Mike Litman show interviews with successful Millionaires. In each interview are buried nuggets of gold that will inspire new ideas and incite action in your life. The best part is, you can read each interview independently and in any order you need. The layout and the &quot;let's get to it&quot; approach matches our sense of urgency.<br />I found this book especially interesting since I recently finished the One Minute Millionaire by Hansen and Allen. In fact, my on-line review of that book is how Mr. Litman found me and suggested that Conversations with Millionaires would be a logical extension of my reading in this area of self-improvement and motivation. Indeed it was for me and will be for you. But even if you have not yet read Hansen's book, Conversations will be an excellent introduction to the concepts explored in depth by Hansen and Allen.<br />There are nine successful self-made millionaires who share their secrets with us through the lively interviews with Mr. Litman. The secrets will give you a leg up on the learning curve for how to diversify your income. I know it has helped me put my own multiple streams of income into perspective and validated some of what I had been struggling to organize in my mind. There will undoubtedly be at least one story in this book that will speak to you and light your path to financial independence.<br />Conversations with Millionaires is success in action. It has managed to put into practice the lessons held within and is itself an example of positive thinking, tithing, and wisdom all rolled into one highly accessible book. Get it, own it, know it, and refer to it often to ensure your own Millionaire life!	2003-10-20
US	53074851	ROKYAB9I9E9LZ	1578514878	177624224	Leading Quietly	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Restraint, Modesty, and Tenacity	I was told that leading quietly is an unorthodox guide to doing the right thing; and indeed there is much grist for the leadership mill buried in this excellent book. There are many memorable points of view, but perhaps the one that sticks most in my mind is that quiet leaders possess three very unglamorous virtues: restraint, modesty, and tenacity. &quot;Each of these is a habit of mind and action, and each helps men and women use the tools and tactics of quiet leadership in responsible, effective ways.&quot;<br />But what is quiet leadership and who are the quiet leaders? Quiet leadership is dealing with the messy, everyday challenges, and the quiet leaders are those who labor endlessly to meet those challenges and keep things moving in our corporations. They are NOT the &quot;flashy, public hero&quot; kinds of leaders. They simply get the work done and make the hard decisions.<br />Badaracco convinces me more than ever that it is imperative that we define our corporate moral values and clearly articulate the ethics process we use to choose between competing moral and/or economic values. The reason is that the hard choices are embedded in our everyday corporate life. In these situations, individuals rarely take bold or courageous steps. Rather they step back, study, analyze, worry, and finally, make the best decision they can make - then stand behind it and move on.<br />Quiet leaders possess a positive attitude, but they are also very realistic, not cynical, in evaluating the situation. These leaders work with four basic principles: 1-You don't know everything; 2-You WILL be surprised; 3-Keep and eye on the insiders, and 4-Trust, but cut the cards! They learn to trust mixed motives rather than trying to define their actions in purist terms. In other words, they accept that the right solution can also include positive results for themselves as well as the company, employee, and/or customer.<br />This well written and well organized book is definitely worth the time and should be in any management library.and should be in any management library.	2003-10-19
US	53074851	RDWYDUO799ZD0	1578515823	186287468	Geeks and Geezers	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Out of the Crucible of Life comes Leadership	Geeks &amp; Geezers by Warren G. Bennis and Robert J. Thomas is about how Era, Values, and Defining Moments Shape Leaders. And it does an excellent job of pointing out the differences between our generations. This Harvard Business School Press publication is definitely useful in understanding the way folks in my parents' generation (the Geezers) react to those in my children's generation (Geek) . Based on their definitions for Geeks and Geezers, I am in between the two, yet most of my acquaintances put me in the Geek category due to my love of and work in the world of technology.<br />The basic premise of this book is that all leaders must go through a &quot;crucible&quot; of some kind. The kind of leadership characteristics we have may be different because of our environments (Geezers defined by WWII, Parental fallibility, etc. and Geeks by abundance, opportunity, technology and globalization), but every leader is tested somehow. The different environments and experiences affects the needs, wants, character and maturation process for these people and therefore define the differences in leadership style.<br />After exploring historical experiences and interviewing both groups, the authors complete their leadership model with Era and Individual factors feeding into the crucible of Experiences. The crucible heats up experiences and organization of meaning that develops Leadership competencies. The crucible might be military service in the case of the Geezer of business failure in the case of the Geeks, but whatever that life changing crucible is, it is the one thing that is common to leadership. This book is worth your time and consideration if for no other reason than to understand the value of the crucible we may now be going through in our contracting economy - this so called job-loss recovery.	2003-09-20
US	53074851	R3KVVO3SHEFQYL	0609609491	110923267	The One Minute Millionaire: The Enlightened Way to Wealth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Double Pleasure . . .	This book was recommended to me by one of my business Advisory Board members. It has turned out to be an excellent recommendation. Two great books in one - the left side of each page has a story for my left brain and the right side has a story for my right brain.<br />This volume is full of ideas on how to develop multiple streams of income and leverage talents of those around you. From the Millionaire Ahas the authors take us through Mentors, Teams, Networks, and the manifestations of all that we've learned. This is accomplished with both the &quot;text book&quot; approach (left side pages) while weaving a wonderful story that exemplifies the lessons in prose (right side pages).<br />I was so impressed with this book that I rented the audio version so that I could re-enforce the lessons while driving around town. Many say that today we are not just in a &quot;jobless recovery,&quot; but that we are in a &quot;job-LOSS recovery.&quot; Those in my network would agree, and they would also agree that this book shows the only way out of the dilemma for many people in transition. Whether you learn the lesson from the heart-rending story of Michelle Ericksen or from the more traditional approach, the One Minute Millionaire is more than worth your time, it is worth your effort to employ the lessons.	2003-09-20
US	53074851	R22PONHWYKASVS	0809117541	667920064	Hope for the Flowers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just when the caterpillar gave up hope . . .	Hope for the Flowers is a children's story with a moral that we adults should take to heart as well. We can't help but keep thinking about our own careers as Stripe, the caterpillar, struggles with his climb to the top of the heap. Once he gets there, he learns that there really isn't anything special to see or own. I won't spoil the story for you, but will remind you of the old adage that it is best to make sure that the ladder you're climbing is against the right building!<br />I highly recommend this book to those with young children or who teach young children. Only because you might be embarrassed to purchase it for yourself and read it. So use a child as an excuse and learn how Stripe and Yellow finally get through the perils of climbing the heap. Simply a wonderful book.	2003-09-02
US	53074851	R1YHB1N9T6JMV1	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Taking us to the next level	This book has come highly recommended by several of my colleagues. I thoroughly enjoyed Built to Last, so I was looking forward to this book as well, and I was not disappointed. Mr. Collins has another winner on his hands.<br />A key message in this excellent management treatise is that true leaders build organizations that will last long after they are gone. They put excellent people together first and then figure out what the company will do. If the company already exists, they put the right people in the right jobs and then make sure that the company is headed in the right direction.<br />This is right in keeping with what I have been suggesting to those attending my Ethics as a Business Process seminars. We need to make sure we are building human resources and processes for the long term and not be focused on the short term (quarterly) results. Focus on those short term results forces managers to make incorrect decisions for the STAKEHOLDERS.<br />Another key point is that we need to account for the stakeholders not just the stockholders. When we are concerned about all those in our business chain, we do not make decisions that make only one group happy at the expense of others. So customers, employees, stockholders, and those in proximity to our physical plants and services must be taken into account as well.<br />Collins presents the &quot;Hedgehog Concept&quot; and the three circles as a model to make his points. One circle is &quot;What you are deeply passionate about.&quot; A second circle is &quot;What drives your economic engine.&quot; The third circle is &quot;What you can be the best in the world at.&quot; The intersection of the three circles is where we need to spend our time and energy. The Great Companies are more like hedgehogs--they know one big but simple thing and they stick to it, at all costs. They aren't the flashy technology companies, they are the tried and true long term companies that keep producing sustained great results.<br />Collins also presents the concept of the Level 5 leader. Level 1 are highly capable individuals, level 2 are contributing team members, level 3 are competent managers, level 4 are effective leaders. And then there is the level 5 executive or leader who builds enduring greatness through a paradoxical blend of personal humility and professional will. Level 5 leadership is not just about humility and modesty; it is equally about ferocious resolve, and almost stoic determination to do whatever needs to be done to make the company great. Level 5 leaders are fanatically driven, infected with an incurable need to produce results, and they work at the intersection of the three circles.<br />The book is documented with the Collins trademark studies, surveys, and interviews. He gives us a periodic view of how his research team argued over and hashed out the details which resulted in this excellent book. And the surprise? The surprise is that this is not a follow on to Built to Last but rather it is best positioned as a prequel to that book. If you haven't read Built to Last, read Good to Great first and then read Built to Last. Both are excellent and by reading them in the suggested order, the puzzle pieces will simply fall together. Definitely a five out of five on my scale.also presents the concept of the Level 5 leader. Level 1 are highly capable individuals, level 2 are contributing team members, level 3 are competent managers, level 4 are effective leaders. And then there is the level 5 executive or leader who builds enduring greatness through a paradoxical blend of personal humility and professional will. Level 5 leadership is not just about humility and modesty; it is equally about ferocious resolve, and almost stoic determination to do whatever needs to be done to make the company great. Level 5 leaders are fanatically driven, infected with an incurable need to produce results, and they work at the intersection of the three circles.<br />The book is documented with the Collins trademark studies, surveys, and interviews. He gives us a periodic view of how his research team argued over and hashed out the details which resulted in this excellent book. And the surprise? The surprise is that this is not a follow on to Built to Last but rather it is best positioned as a prequel to that book. If you haven't read Built to Last, read Good to Great first and then read Built to Last. Both are excellent and by reading them in the suggested order, the puzzle pieces will simply fall together. Definitely a five out of five on my scale.	2003-09-01
US	53074851	RXACLMAR42BQO	0785264868	178549491	What Your Doctor Doesn't Know About Nutritional Medicine May Be Killing You	Books	3	59	98	N	Y	It's not too late . . .	This could have been a five star book, but Ray Strand insisted on peppering us with language of a particular religious world view that has made it difficult to believe in the rest of his recommendations. Personally, I wanted to read the book for solid scientific information on nutrition, I could have done without the narrow religious statements.<br />However, if you can get by the self-serving public piousness, there is good information on nutrition, diet, supplements and exercise which will serve us all well. For years I fought the use of supplements as being a waste of money. I subscribed to the view that if you ate a reasonable diet of vegetables and fruit, you would get all the nutrients you need. Perhaps that was true at one time, but with the high levels of pollution in our environment, poor animal husbandry, and depleted farm lands, we have to resort to the use of supplements. I am now convinced that high quality dietary supplements are a requirement for a healthy life.<br />If you can't find any other books on nutrition, then this one might serve to get you started. However, steel yourself for the off-topic creationist messages.	2003-08-29
US	53074851	R29NSDTI7X3HME	006060381X	278596244	When Science Meets Religion: Enemies, Strangers, or Partners?	Books	4	30	32	N	Y	Process this . . .	When Science Meets Religion is the winner of the Templeton Prize for advancing religious understanding. As a humanist, this topic is always of interest to me, and I found Barbour's view on process theology most interesting. The typology of the book was such that four &quot;topics&quot; were discussed in each chapter with respect to the &quot;view&quot; being discussed: Conflict, Independence, Dialogue, and Integration. So, for instance Astronomy and Creation are &quot;analyzed&quot; from those four points, as are the other major sticking points between science and religion.<br />Barbour seems to treat each position with respect and objectivity and clearly states his own position so that the reader is not required to &quot;guess&quot; where he is coming from in his own thinking. For example, in chapter five (Genet6ics, Neuroscience, and Human Nature) Barbour states clearly the &quot;I will defend an integral view of the person as a psychosomatic unity, which I believe is closer to both the biblical view and the evidence from contemporary science.&quot; And so it goes through all the major topics of the book. And, in the next to the last paragraph, we have this conclusion: &quot;Finally, I find the concepts of process philosophy particularly helpful, but I am aware that a single coherent set of philosophical categories may not do justice to the rich diversity of human experience.&quot;<br />In the end, Barbour has not convinced me to leave off my Humanist views, but he has indeed given me the framework I need to understand the need for others to use a religious model to express their sense of unity with all the Cosmos. As he so eloquently explains, all models are limited and partial, and none gives a complete or adequate picture of reality. So it is just a matter of where you wish to put your faith when it comes to understanding your own place in that infinity. One can put faith in science eventually giving us answers to the major questions we have or one can put faith in religion explaining the mysteries. Whichever system one chooses, one must keep in mind that no one model fulfills all needs or answers all questions.<br />From the Foreword:<br />&quot;Quantum Physics: A Challenge to Our Assumptions about Reality?<br />Classical physics was deterministic and reductionistic in assuming that the behavior of all objects could be exactly predicted from accurate knowledge of their smallest components. Quantum physics, by contrast, acknowledges an inherent uncertainty in the prediction of events at the atomic and subatomic levels. It is also holistic in showing that the behavior of larger wholes is not simply the sum of the behavior of their parts, but involves distinctive system laws. More over, the quantum world can never be known as it is in itself, but only as it interacts with the observer in a particular experimental system. Quantum physics thus suggests the openness of the future, the inter connectedness of events, and the limitations of human knowledge. Some theistic interpreters propose that God determines the indeterminacies left open by the laws of quantum physics. Advocates of Eastern mysticism say that quantum holism supports their belief in the fundamental unity of all things. The new physics has led scientists, philosophers, and theologians to exciting discussions about time, causality, and the nature of reality.&quot;h in religion explaining the mysteries. Whichever system one chooses, one must keep in mind that no one model fulfills all needs or answers all questions.<br />From the Foreword:<BR>&quot;Quantum Physics: A Challenge to Our Assumptions about Reality?<BR>Classical physics was deterministic and reductionistic in assuming that the behavior of all objects could be exactly predicted from accurate knowledge of their smallest components. Quantum physics, by contrast, acknowledges an inherent uncertainty in the prediction of events at the atomic and subatomic levels. It is also holistic in showing that the behavior of larger wholes is not simply the sum of the behavior of their parts, but involves distinctive system laws. More over, the quantum world can never be known as it is in itself, but only as it interacts with the observer in a particular experimental system. Quantum physics thus suggests the openness of the future, the inter connectedness of events, and the limitations of human knowledge. Some theistic interpreters propose that God determines the indeterminacies left open by the laws of quantum physics. Advocates of Eastern mysticism say that quantum holism supports their belief in the fundamental unity of all things. The new physics has led scientists, philosophers, and theologians to exciting discussions about time, causality, and the nature of reality.&quot;	2003-08-12
US	53074851	R2U3G76N9GH5UU	0670031860	846648040	Freedom Evolves	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Indeterminism isn't ? ? ?	All I can say is &quot;Wow.&quot; I admit to struggling with this excellent book for much of the first half, then, after digesting as much as I could, the last half was a bit easier. Dennett does his usual outstanding job of defining and carefully leading us through the many different arguments around his controversial topic of Free Will. Having read both Consciousness Explained and Darwin's Dangerous Ideas, I was really looking forward to this book as well. Little did I know that it would so challenge my focus and ingrained ideas about determinism and free will.<br />Dennett shows that determinism does not imply inevitability. As if that isn't enough to struggle with, he then goes on to show that indeterminism doesn't give us free will as most people argue it does. And then, to add insult to injury, Dennett shows clearly how there are real options in a deterministic world. Free will becomes &quot;real, but it is not a preexisting feature of our existence, like the law of gravity. It is also not what tradition declares it to be: a God-like power to exempt oneself from the causal fabric of the physical world. It is an evolved creation of human activity and beliefs, and it is just as real as such other human creations as music and money. And even more valuable.&quot;<br />Since I speak and lecture on Ethics as a Process, I was most interested in Dennett's view on ethics. He gave me much to think about as he states that: &quot;I have not sought to replace the voluminous work in ethics with some Darwinian alternative, but rather to place that work on the foundation it deserves: a realistic, naturalistic, potentially unified vision of our place in nature.&quot;<br />No doubt I will have to return to this book again soon. And there is also no doubt that I will enjoy it even more the next time around and learn perhaps as much as my first time through. This is definitely a five out of five on my review scale!	2003-07-29
US	53074851	RTSWCODHRFNY	0787956988	917143422	Church on Sunday, Work on Monday: The Challenge of Fusing Christian Values with Business Life	Books	3	2	22	N	N	A cry into the wind . . .	The challenge of fusing Christian values with business life. I find it very difficult to deal with individual moral value systems in the business world. So, as a manager, I developed a concept of Ethics is a Business Process in which clearly stated moral values of the company are inculcated throughout the corporation; in mission and vision statements, in slogans, in training, in policies and procedures. These values cannot be based on religion and still be welcoming to our increasingly multi-ethnic workforce here in the U.S. and around the world. Rather, I believe we must keep religion out of the ethical process.<br />Yet we know that individuals most often include their religious up-bringing in the list of &quot;where I get my moral values.&quot; Usually listed are family, school, and religious institute. So how do we keep things separate while honoring the basis for our moral sources? Nash and McLennan posit that from a Christian point of view, the coping mechanisms are neither active nor developing synergy between faith and business. The wake-up call they wish to pronounce in this book is limited in that they really only address Christianity's view and interaction. While this is certainly a significant view, it is not a majority view and is becoming more of a minority view in our culture. This, therefore, limits the usefulness of this book to managers in the business world unless they can make the translation from Christianity to &quot;any religious or cultural&quot; group.<br />I found the book useful in outlining the difficulties faced by business people today. But I did not find hope for an easy or even difficult solution. Instead, I became more convinced than ever that we need to make religion a personal and PRIVATE affair and make sure that our business moral values are clearly stated in secular terms so that we as employees or service providers can decide on the appropriate interaction with the corporation. Today, science informs our moral values more eloquently than many religious institutions and therefore informed individuals turn to those sources whenever possible. As a business executive, I remain unconvinced that we can bring religious language into the multi-cultural workplace without creating severe strain and discomfort for the employees. If there is a homogeneous workforce of one culture and/or one religious faith, then there is no difficulty. Luckily, that is rarely the case. I find the multi-cultural environment to be most stimulating and intellectually preferable to a homogeneous workplace. So I vote for clearly defined secular moral values in the workplace. Keep religion out.uently than many religious institutions and therefore informed individuals turn to those sources whenever possible. As a business executive, I remain unconvinced that we can bring religious language into the multi-cultural workplace without creating severe strain and discomfort for the employees. If there is a homogeneous workforce of one culture and/or one religious faith, then there is no difficulty. Luckily, that is rarely the case. I find the multi-cultural environment to be most stimulating and intellectually preferable to a homogeneous workplace. So I vote for clearly defined secular moral values in the workplace. Keep religion out.	2003-07-29
US	53074851	R3N2VUTCGJV1F1	0767913825	396993442	Final Accounting: Ambition, Greed and the Fall of Arthur Andersen	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Lessons for a capitalist society . . .	More on the corporate ethics scandals! There is much to be learned about the slippery slope of situational ethics in this book. What is compelling is that Ms. Toffler tells all, including her own shortcomings, after her realization that she had started the slide down that slope! Ms. Toffler writes in a straightforward, no holds barred, manner that keeps one's interest even as we shake our heads in amazement at the missteps, greed, and self serving actions of these supposed watchdogs of the public interest. And, personally, I read this book with a profound sadness to realize that the great company founded by Arthur Andersen, with unassailable principles and a sense of public duty had come finally to this terrible end.<br />Of her years as a consultant, Ms. Toffler says, &quot;one important thing I've learned is that most people do not want to do unethical things. Usually, unethical or illegal behavior happens when decent people are put under unbearable pressure to do their jobs and meet ambitious goals without the resources to get the job done right.&quot; Her conclusion from her years at AA is that it's not the bad apples that cause the problems, it's the rotten culture. When an organization's leadership team takes their eye off the reason for the organization's existence (to provide a useful service or product to the consumer), and begins focusing on profit to the near exclusion of other values, then the inevitable slide to extinction begins.<br />One cannot help but to wonder how we can possibly effectively change our corporations to provide the greatest happiness for the greatest number of people when some of those stakeholders (investors in particular) insist on short term gains versus building enduring organizations. Finally, Ms. Toffler offers hope - lots of hard work, but some hope. Starting with what she knows best (corporations) she advises that we: (1) accept the appropriate level of regulation on our public accountants and client organizations (Sarbanes-Oxley as an example is a good start, but needs to go further); (2) change executive compensation to better balance the short term goals with building an organization to last; (3) rethink the structure of the CPA firms - partnerships don't work here; (4) know the true client - who really is the end user and are you serving their best interest; (5) limit the perks and goodies between customers, clients, and your own organization; (6) stay out of the campaign financing game - influence peddling can only hurt a large number of people.<br />This book should be on every leader's desk and the lessons learned should be truly embraced, inculcated throughout our organizations, and expanded to our larger world economic community. A five out of five rating for Ms. Toffler.s-Oxley as an example is a good start, but needs to go further); (2) change executive compensation to better balance the short term goals with building an organization to last; (3) rethink the structure of the CPA firms - partnerships don't work here; (4) know the true client - who really is the end user and are you serving their best interest; (5) limit the perks and goodies between customers, clients, and your own organization; (6) stay out of the campaign financing game - influence peddling can only hurt a large number of people.  <br />This book should be on every leader's desk and the lessons learned should be truly embraced, inculcated throughout our organizations, and expanded to our larger world economic community. A five out of five rating for Ms. Toffler.	2003-05-24
US	53074851	RM57IEPG3CS6V	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Acheive a more profitable business model . . .	Of all the books I've read on change management this is the most precise in its statement about how corporations need to manage the continuous innovation of their business model in order to survive and thrive in our global, competitive marketplace. Replete with real world examples of successful business model innovation, traps, and pitfalls, this clearly written book provides definitions, case studies, and \\"rules to live by.\\"<br />Continually provide more benefits for your customers; \\". . . business model obsolescence is the major unperceived opportunity for and threat to all businesses now\\" is the self-proclaimed \\"Big Idea\\" of this book. Indeed it is. From that theme, Mitchell and Coles go on to build an air-tight case for continuous business model improvement. And the business model is simply defined as the: Who, What, When, Where, Why, How, and How Much for your product or service. But the simplicity of this concept of a business model should not mislead the reader. There is a significant amount of introspection and work that a leadership team must go through to really understand the answers to these questions in order to map where they are today and what they might do to positively change the model.<br />Mitchell and Coles keep our interest through real live case studies as well as tracking the growth of a child's Lemonade Stand business. The book is divided into four major parts: 1 The Most Productive Areas for Business Model Innovation; 2. Provide Sustained Benefits for All Stakeholders; 3. Expand Business Model Innovation; and 4. Pursue Higher-Potential Business Model Improvement. Each of these sections use real life case studies and hypothetical Lemonade Stands to illustrate the business change management principles. Those examples also provide hope and encouragement to leadership teams in all kinds of businesses that they are not alone in keeping change management from becoming an oxymoron!<br />After reading this book, you will want to keep it handy for reference, ideas for new paths to explore, and to loan to others who seem simply not to \\"get it!\\" What I appreciated most was the honest focus on providing what customers and end users really want in a product or service. Starting there, we can drive our companies to greater achievements by continuous business model innovation. Rarely do I rate a book a five on a scale of five, but Mitchell and Coles get that rating for The Ultimate Competitive Advantage!<br />Dave Kinnear, CEO, dbkAssociates, Inc.ference, ideas for new paths to explore, and to loan to others who seem simply not to \\"get it!\\" What I appreciated most was the honest focus on providing what customers and end users really want in a product or service. Starting there, we can drive our companies to greater achievements by continuous business model innovation. Rarely do I rate a book a five on a scale of five, but Mitchell and Coles get that rating for The Ultimate Competitive Advantage!<br />Dave Kinnear, CEO, dbkAssociates, Inc.	2003-05-05
US	53074851	RU0GM4ER4DBQY	1578512549	345197225	The Heart of Change: Real-Life Stories of How People Change Their Organizations	Books	4	14	18	N	Y	Change Management - an Oxymoron?	In this book Kotter explains how people change less because they are given analysis and facts about why change is needed and more because we show them a truth that influences their feelings. This concept is not adopted by all those writing on change management. Yet it is a concept that does fit with my experience. Unless the facts, figures, and general information presented by those wanting to effect change is compelling enough to generate the feelings that change is a requirement, then change will not happen. Kotter puts it this way: See, Feel, Change. So the information and analysis must be geared toward the &quot;seeing,&quot; and the &quot;feeling&quot; in order to prompt people to change. If we do not actively pursue the task of driving necessary change, change management becomes an oxymoron - change forced upon us becomes chaos and we do not manage the change, it manages us.<br />One of the things I enjoyed most about reading this book was the clear and logical layout with the interesting web-page navigation graphics. Also the case studies from &quot;real life&quot; gave practical examples of what successful change might look like in our companies. His eight steps to successful change are: 1. Increase Urgency, 2. Build the Guiding Team, 3. Get the Vision Right, 4. Communicate for Buy-In, 5. Empower Action, 6. Create Short-Term wins, 7. Don't let up, 8. Make Change Stick.<br />All of this helps in building a practice of Shaping the Corporate Culture, which is, of course, near and dear to our hearts at dbkAssociates. Many of the insights in this book will be of practical use to us and to our clients.	2003-05-03
US	53074851	RW4SBJJ24B39F	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Diatribe - Get in line!	I'm afraid I had a hard time getting by the lecturing &quot;tone of voice&quot; that Friedman so often has in his speaking and writing. Despite the fact that there is a great deal of information in this timely book that will help clarify the trends in globalization, the didactic and often condescending language put me off and made it difficult for me to absorb the good information, experiences, examples, and messages.<br />To make things even worse, I decided to get an audio version of the book to see if I was &quot;misreading&quot; the tone. Bad move! The impression I was receiving from the written word was amplified when I listened to Mr. Friedman read his own material. Still, if you can get by the tone and absorb the message, there is much to commend the book for those of us in the global business market. And, to hear Friedman tell it, economic leaders in the rest of the world had better listen up.	2003-05-03
US	53074851	R33RUD2JXUGEF3	0972434879	920543195	Vivekananda: Lessons in Classical Yoga	Books	2	6	10	N	N	A unity of spirit that binds us forever together . . .	I had the pleasure of listening to Dave DeLuca speak about his Hindu religious journey and his love for the teachings of Vivekananda. He is passionate about this topic and so far, this book shows his love and compassion for bringing an open and inclusive spiritual view to the world. His passion for Yogi Vivekananda comes through in his editing effort.<br />The selections that DeLuca chose are indeed inspirational and give a clear image of the Unity of all existence that seems to be the corner stone of life philosophy from India. The story of Swami Vivekananda is compellingly told and rivets the reader. The short clearly written teachings can be read in just about any order, used as daily meditations, and revisited over and over again. Along the way, this uplifting volume will provide insight into the Vedanta philosophy.<br />If you have the opportunity to hear DeLuca's presentation, take it. If you have the opportunity to read this book, take it! An excellent addition to anyone open to understanding and embracing the concept of the interconnected web of all existence. Whatever your religious (or non-religious) grounding, you will likely enjoy this book.	2003-05-03
US	53074851	R3JZ17K93L6SRQ	0761519661	408872588	The New Professionals: The Rise of Network Marketing As the Next Major Profession	Books	4	86	90	N	N	The network is King . . .	The New Professional makes clear the evolution of multilevel and direct marketing. Like many folks, I had a pretty dim view of the overly aggressive sales tactics and misleading meeting agendas that I ran into with many of the earlier direct marketing efforts. Now I see that things have changed for the better - much better! Inventory is not in your home, it's not in someone else's garage, it is at the distributor and easily obtained through the internet. Supply chain management is superb in these new companies.<br />For example, King and Robinson provide statistics to show why direct marketing is a robust and very efficient model for introducing some products into the market place. And, they show why the type of person involved in network marketing today is truly a professional: &quot;Of key interest, the research found 'successful (direct and network marketing) sales people have a communication style or social style that encourages the building of relationships with their customers . . . The most successful sales leaders have a combination of relationship and task orientation' (in their communication styles).&quot;<br />Network Marketing and multilevel marketing are synonymous terms. They are defined by a business model which pays commissions on multiple levels of the sales organization. Network Marketing/Selling differs from Direct Selling in that Network Marketing:<br /> 1. Focuses on relationships rather than on closing the sale or booking an order<br /> 2. Focuses on information sharing<br /> 3. Independent business owner (IBO)<br /> 4. Commissions on multiple levels of sales (not just retail of the IBO)<br />The role of the network marketing channel is to accelerate the movement of products using the most efficient distribution technique: word-of-mouth communication.<br />This is an excellent book to bring you up to date on the network marketing phenominon and to understand the new business models (yes, there are many).	2003-04-22
US	53074851	R2BH9NH09GO6UB	0787963925	13509619	Hesselbein on Leadership	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Managing in a world that is round . . .	This book was first mentioned to me at a Leadership presentation at one of the not-for profit organizations I serve, and then again a short while later at a UCI Graduate School of Management presentation by a local executive. This is a delightful small book filled with some good advice, pithy sayings and leadership insights. Hesselbein lives up to her reputation in this compendium of essays on Leadership. I rather like books of essays because often each chapter, or essay, stands on its own and can be read or re-read as the need arises.<br />Hesselbein writes in a clear and conversational manner that makes it easy to understand her point. But one should not be lulled into complacency while enjoying her most readable style for the insights to be shared are important and many. She points out with great understatement that &quot;Leadership is a matter of how to be rather than how to do it.&quot; She offers as whole new way of organizing our enterprises as she explains &quot;Managing in a World That Is Round.&quot; This book will find its best use for those managers looking for a metaphor or simple explanation to share with others in the organization such complex topics as organizational change, behavior, and interaction with the environment. It will be on my reference shelf for a long time to come.	2002-11-26
US	53074851	R474XDJIS57M8	0029211816	875908285	Fast Cycle Time: How to Align Purpose, Strategy, and Structure for Speed	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Cross functional alignment is the key . . .	Many of our clients are struggling with life at internet speeds. If you haven't read this classic on speeding up your organizations product and service life cycle, now may be a good time to do so. Praise for this book, as listed on the back of the dust jacket, come from Ford Motor Company, Quantum Corporation and others with Ed McCraken, CEO of Silicon Graphics Computer Systems stating that this is; &quot;A must read for executive who seek speed and competitiveness.&quot;<br />Mr. Meyer utilizes an &quot;ongoing case study&quot; to make his points concerning FCT processes. This approach lends credence to his positions and gives the book a solid feel of practicality. In addition, frequent use of diagrams helps the reader visualize the organizations, processes, information flow, and cross functional activities of organizations. The layout of the book is logical and provides for continuity as Meyer builds on each preceding chapter.<br />The book is filled with excellent observations and pithy sayings: &quot;The responsibility for strategic alignment rests with senior management.&quot; &quot;Any organization leader who seeks to 'empower' people should first create a clear strategic context that enables others to use the power with which they were born.&quot; &quot;Research demonstrates there is a negative correlation between economic growth rate and the number of Nobel prizes won.&quot; &quot;A sustainable FCT capability can be achieved only by learning faster, not by working faster.&quot;	2002-11-26
US	53074851	R2N36O0R4HMS3P	0060506539	693448544	When Religion Becomes Evil	Books	5	44	48	N	N	The seeds of hope within . . .	I received this book in proof edition from one of my Religion Editor friends. She has done me a great service. I found the thought process and information provided by Kimball to be most compelling. The book is well laid out and well written with concise expression of ideas. I have long believed that religion as we know it today has become corrupted by men (and I do mean men since the religions are mostly controlled by men, not women). But Kimball puts into eloquent words those ideas and concepts which I found I could only hold in my mind and not express.<br />Like so many books in this genre, When Religion Becomes Evil was scheduled for publication on the one year anniversary of the 9/11/01 tragedies. It could not have been timed better or be more relevant and important. For it not only points out the five basic corruptions that manifest themselves in each of the major religious traditions, but it holds out hope that each of those religions has within it the wherewithal to root out and correct those flaws. Yet we must be willing to hold ourselves and our faith institutions accountable for the intolerance we practice.<br />Kimball states that religion is arguably the most powerful and persuasive force on earth and that yes, it is the problem. It is the problem because each seems to hold that it alone has the absolute truth, demands blind obedience, and justifies the means used by the end goal (presumably salvation or \\"right living.\\") Somehow, Kimball has reinvigorated the often used argument that the basic teaching of the world faith traditions (Christian, Muslim, Jewish, Hindu and Buddhist) have been used for corrupt ends, yet are in themselves the seeds for healing. \\"The complicity of religious persuasions in global conflicts today is undeniable, but understanding this complicity requires that we clearly grasp the difference between what we have called corrupt forms of religious commitment and the authentic forms that offer hope.\\"<br />The message of this book, so eloquently and convincingly written, is one that all lay people should embrace. We must hold ourselves and our faith institutions accountable for our actions in the world. For \\"a segregated group in which the thinking and critical decisions reside with one or a few people, particularly where there is apocalyptic teaching involved, is a disaster waiting to happen.\\"eloquently and convincingly written, is one that all lay people should embrace. We must hold ourselves and our faith institutions accountable for our actions in the world. For \\"a segregated group in which the thinking and critical decisions reside with one or a few people, particularly where there is apocalyptic teaching involved, is a disaster waiting to happen.\\"	2002-11-16
US	53074851	RQTE4KXKCZS0K	1573927562	391136097	Western Atheism: A Short History	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Proud roots for the humanists . . .	Another book recommended by my good friend and mentor, Dr. Gus Rath, and another winner. This small volume gives a wonderfully concise synopsis of the history of Western Atheism. It gives some hope to those who want to understand that they are not alone in their humanist or agnostic view of the world. They in fact are part of a long history and associated with some of the most powerful &quot;thinkers&quot; of our species.<br />Comfort can be taken in the acknowledgement that many &quot;theologians and religious philosophers now openly state, that religion is a 'blik', a perspective, an attitude, a way of looking at the world, rather than a descriptive account of how reality actually is.&quot; Thrower also clarified for me the thought that I have always had that &quot;atheism&quot; is not a satisfactory description of my own philosophy of life. &quot;For if the assertion that there is a god is nonsensical, then the atheist's assertion that there is no god is equally nonsensical, since it is only a significant proposition that can be significantly contradicted.&quot; Which implies that agnosticism is also ruled out. Instinctively, I have referred to myself as a non-theist rather than atheist. After reading Thrower, I am even more comfortable referring to myself as an unbeliever or Humanist without any further qualifications.<br />I highly recommend this book for those who are either theist or humanist in their belief because it gives a wonderful overview of the history of these two different views of our human awareness. For the theist, it provides a fresh look at the &quot;old arguments&quot; against religion and will help to sharpen or deepen your faith (since I doubt those of true faith will be persuaded against their faith by a review of atheism's history). For the humanist, it will provide roots for your own life philosophy. An excellent addition to both libraries!	2002-07-29
US	53074851	R68VZ4DVLL63U	0787948039	498509435	Flawless Consulting: A Guide to Getting Your Expertise Used	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Fast learning cycle for consultants . . .	Peter Block has updated his &quot;consultant's Bible&quot; and made it better than ever. This is becoming must reading for the consultants in our new firm. While the point of view of most of the book is from that of an &quot;inside&quot; consultant, the principles and ideas are directly related to external consultants as well. The layout of this book makes it an invaluable reference with easy to find topics, checklists, and guides for consultants. A final checklist is provided in the appendix that comprises all the information covered in the body of the book. The final list cross references back to the appropriate chapters so that as you go through the process of Flawless Consulting, you can easily review the material presented.<br />Flawless Consulting encourages us to make sure that WE are NOT the cause of failure to either land a consultancy or properly implement once we do have the contract. But the best idea presented is that the secondary goal of consultancy is to teach clients how to solve the problem themselves the next time! Consultants are advised to be authentic, including stating their own needs at the appropriate times.<br />Mr. Block provides real world examples to back up his theories and positions. I especially enjoyed the list of &quot;organizational codes&quot; that he gave with respect to communications: When people mean &quot;I don't like it,&quot; they express it by saying &quot;I don't understand it.&quot; Or when they mean &quot;I don't want to do it,&quot; they will say, &quot;Let's get more data,&quot; or &quot;I'll get back to you,&quot; or &quot;Let me talk it over with my staff.&quot;<br />Whether dealing with resistance to change, how to listen actively, or how implementations go awry, Block's clear style and no nonsense approach to solving problems will serve internal and external consultants well and will undoubtedly provide superior results for the clients.	2002-07-13
US	53074851	R11DUX0RCXHUS	0262025027	356445961	The Shattered Self: The End of Natural Evolution	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	The end of natural evolution is here. . .	This wonderful book is a great companion to The Age of Spiritual Machines and in many respects, updates some of the science of that volume. But of interest to me is the discussion of all the competing moral values that we will have to face as we move forward with genetic manipulation of our genetic material and that of other animals and plants.<br />Baldi has achieved his goal of making the book very readable for the lay person while compiling additional details in the appendices for those a bit more interested delving into the details. His thoughts are clear and articulate as he lays out the pros and cons of several competing moral values we face now and those we might face in the future.<br />Baldi does not shy away from the long controversial or taboo subjects. His comments on sex are cogent and up to date. For example, he states; \\"Sexual and reproductive issues have long affected our societies in ways that created tensions between 5the sexes and were not always favorable to women. After all, even today in many countries men earn higher salaries than women for the same jobs. This is hard to justify from first principles in democratic societies, which are supposed to be founded on equality among humans.\\" He then goes on to explain how cloning technology will further strain the relationship as the sexual act itself becomes unnecessary for evolution or preservation of genetic material.<br />We are also warned that, \\"In this new reality [biotechnologies and the internet] of more or less continuous genotypes and phenotypes, all kinds of new creatures are beginning to pop up at a rapid pace, forcing us to revise our concepts, our laws, and our sense of whatever makes us human.\\" This book should be on the must read list for any person interested in the establishment of ethical processes and models that allow us to choose between competing moral values.	2002-07-13
US	53074851	R2VOH40ZDOITEQ	0415188342	309155073	Sacred Gaia: Holistic Theology and Earth System Science	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Life is a continuous Gift	Dr. Primavesi spoke recently at a seminar on the Future Faith, and her view is grounded in a provocatively new and thoughtful understanding of theology as an earth science. I was privileged to hear her speak and found that it was easier to absorb what she had to say in lecture than it was to absorb what she has written in this excellent book. Perhaps that was because there was so little time to go back over what she said where with this book I found myself review the material several times before I was satisfied.<br />And there is no end to interesting concepts, ideas and models to keep one interested. One of the first \\"ah ha\\" moments was when Dr. Primavesi stated that \\"The acceptance of this 'truth within situations' by scientists today means, for them, that 'the epoch of certainties and absolute oppositions' is over.\\"  She then goes on to point out that we are \\"inside the truth\\" and not separable from it, so that all we can do is define a truth from within the situation. This of course applies to not only our science, but our understanding of our evolutionary processes, and our theology. She sees that human language, that vehicle we use to communicate ideas, thoughts, and experiences, anthropomorphizes all that we try to verbalize. Thus we cannot avoid the appearance of separation of ourselves from our environment.<br />As she moves on into the religious aspects of our struggle with good and evil, Dr. Primavesi states that \\"The complexity of interactions in our world is such that their outcomes, their effect-explosions, can never adequately computed, represented or predicted by us. This realization lay at the heart of Darwin's dissatisfaction with the insufficiency of human reason as an instrument for understanding the universe.\\" And she concludes that even today, with all our scientific progress, we underestimate the issue of our being in this world and what we do to it, ourselves, and our progeny as we live our daily lives. We fail to look at the whole complex system as one interdependent system.<br />Sacred Gaia presents us with a model that affirms life as a continuous gift and points out the implications of such a model for religious understanding of our existence. A most profound and engaging book.ystem as one interdependent system. <br />Sacred Gaia presents us with a model that affirms life as a continuous gift and points out the implications of such a model for religious understanding of our existence. A most profound and engaging book.	2002-06-16
US	53074851	R2NC77YCNMFIFK	0446678791	287153728	Free Agent Nation: The Future of Working for Yourself	Books	5	13	14	N	N	On your own . . .	This book is all about how America's new independent workers are transforming the way we live and the economy in which we work. This book was recommended by a new friend and mentor and it has been timely indeed. The work that Daniel Pink has done to document the new business model sweeping America will undoubtedly have detractors and naysayers. Yet it fits with my own experience in the high technology market in which I have spent more than thirty years.<br />Mr. Pink points out that the largest employer in the U.S. is Milwaukee's Manpower, Inc. and that two out of three workers in California do not hold traditional jobs. These facts, combined with the aging of the American Workforce, the need for more family friendly schedules, and advancing technology makes for a powerful prediction that more and more American workers will be Free Agents in the next century.<br />This book is full of interesting factoids, anecdotal data, and documented trends that not only make the point for Free Agency, but is convincing for the predictions made. The format of the book is also useful in that each chapter ends with \\"The Box.\\" This summary includes \\"The Crux,\\" which is the salient point of the chapter; \\"The Factoid,\\" which is a major and usually surprising fact that supports the crux of the chapter; \\"The Quote,\\" which is also lifted out of the chapter and serves to support the conclusions; and \\"The Word,\\" which is usually a new word or phrase that Mr. Pink believes can be moved into the lexicon of the Free Agent.<br />A timely and useful book and one that all managers (who are toast according to Mr. Pink) and employees alike must take the time to read. Whether or not you are or plan to be a Free Agent, this book will prove extremely useful in understanding our workplace and the emerging economy.	2002-04-22
US	53074851	RDCOL4JPY3S76	0300080034	977917288	Belief in God in an Age of Science (The Terry Lectures Series)	Books	4	8	21	N	N	credible eschatology - not	A thin volume that is very dense! John Polkinghorne is a physicist and theologian. In this well written book, he attempts to pull together our experience in this modern world with a belief in God. He uses the \\"model\\" of scientific thinking to support his theological thinking.<br />  Many of the writers on my book page are taken to task here, and I admit to having a bit of a struggle following all of Rev. Dr. Polinghorne's logic. In the end, I was not convinced, yet the writing is compelling and I have now gone through much of the book several times over. I was looking for an understanding of ancient scripture that breaths new meaning for today. And indeed, some cases of \\"updated thinking\\" has given new life to the stories and metaphors of the Christian scriptures of my youth. But some must simply be abandoned. There is precedent to do so. Yet we seem, as a people, to stubbornly hold onto other literal interpretations and it gets us cross-wise of our intellectual understanding.<br />  Polkinghorne has received recognition from the Templeton Foundation for this work. No doubt it is well deserved. For example, Polkinghorne has this to say about an updated Christian view: \\"A credible eschatology, which takes account of the eventual death of the universe and looks beyond it to God's new creation, is surely an indispensable component in realistic Christian thinking.\\"<br />  Still, I am not convinced that he has shed any light for the belief in God in an age of Science. Despite his credentials in science, his theology gave me no sound logic for \\"proving\\" the existence of God. In the end, it is still a matter of faith - you either believe it, or you do not. You either have it, or you do not and this book, to my understanding, did not change the picture for me. Yet I highly regard and highly recommend this book to you!	2002-03-25
US	53074851	R2ZRSAM0O8LBR5	0452282098	322992187	City of God	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Lost in the City	City of God is one of the most confusing, yet enlightening books I have read in a very long time. It is like reading a novel in CNN headline news format. There are about five parallel stories intertwined with short chapters on each. There is little warning or way of identifying which character or story line you are following at any one time.<br />  But while the story itself was somewhat difficult, the theology is right on. At the end, our main character, a Priest now converting to Judaism, gives a bit of a sermon at his wedding to the beautiful, intelligent, Rabbi. He has just cited a long list of the worlds murderers and dictators and their atrocities, and then says:  \\"Do you not find this a grave challenge to your existence, Lord, that we do these things to one another? That for all our theological excuse making, and despite the moral struggles and the intellectual and technical advances of human history, we live enraged--quietly or explosively, but always greedily enraged? Do you not find it an unforgivable lapse of Yours that after these thousands of years we can no more explain ourselves than we can explain You?\\"<br />  One of the credits on the back cover states that City of God is the crowning achievement of E.L. Doctorow's career--\\"an astonishing modern masterwork of faith, mystery, and the search for spiritual authenticity.\\" I cannot vouch for all of Doctorow's works. But I can say that this book was worth the effort to read.	2002-03-25
US	53074851	RI28DBJAXH8A7	0862419093	331586665	Godless Morality: Keeping Religion Out of Ethics	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Choosing between competing moral values:	Holloway starts right out giving us a challenge: \\"What many people have clearly departed from is any sense that the moral life, lived intentionally and consciously, is consistent with blind obedience to any authority, including what is alleged to be divine authority.\\" And things get better from there! This tightly argued book puts into words what many of us seem to struggle with in our discussions of good and evil, sin, and meaning in life.<br />Holloway has recently stepped down as Bishop of Edinburgh. He is \\"one of the most outspoken and best-loved figures in the modern church.\\" And I had the privilege of hearing him speak recently at a seminar on the future of faith. It is perhaps because I heard him expound upon his views that I learned so much by going back to read his book. Yet I find the writing to be clear and convincing on its own. I was shocked and pleased to read this from the good Bishop's pen: \\"Paradoxically, it is scripture itself that calls us to overturn scripture; it is the witness of the living word of Jesus that challenges us to follow the logic that scripture was made for humanity and not humanity for scripture.\\" These are courageous words indeed for a Bishop to write and preach. He deserves praise and support for this stand.<br />  Richard Holloway challenges us on many levels of our daily lives. He changes our concept of how to choose between competing moral values (often good values, not straight good versus straight evil). He makes us think about our institutions of marriage, church, and government as the recipient of our moral judgments and challenges us to live up to the responsibility with a Godless Morality. Excellent book.	2002-03-25
US	53074851	RI1AH9B8L2IW2	0062516876	453447781	Touching My Father's Soul: A Sherpa's Journey to the Top of Everest	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A spiritual jouney to the top	A book on loan from a friend who returned my DVD movie of Vertical Limit with this book as &quot;interest on the loan.&quot; And what a payback! Throughout the whole book we are treated to not only a story of climbing a mountain, but we are given insight into a spiritual quest and a peek at the lives of the Sherpa people.<br />  The story starts out to chronicle the IMAX filming expedition of Everest in 1996 lead by David Breashers. And while that goal is accomplished, we also learn of the superstitions, faith, and spirituality of the Sherpa people. We learn too that the modern world has taken its toll on those people in the same way that it has affected most of our world.<br /><br />  But Jamling Norgay tells us his own story as well. We learn of his lost faith as he studies here in the US and then how he regains respect for the religion of his youth as he prepares for the expedition. We are privileged to learn of the ritual offerings, and given insight into the &quot;forecast&quot; of the lamas. All of this is done in a spell-binding, can't put the book down way. An entertaining and informative read.	2002-03-25
US	53074851	RKE069PB5VFVP	0970126107	926404973	Gems of Wisdom Heart of Gold	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Inspiration for all . . .	Javed Mohammed is a friend whom I have grown to respect and trust in our sporadic time together. He is a thoughtful man, one who is dedicated to his profession and his religion. In this book he shares some of the inspirational thoughts, readings, and speeches that he has come across in his life experience. He shares them with us, providing insights and introspection that is well worth our time.<br />We can, after reading this wonderful volume, be ready to gather our own gems throughout the day. Tom Campbell (US Congressman - R/CA) put it well: \\"A must read for all American youth and adults. This book informs and illuminates the way through inspirational Muslim literature.\\"	2002-02-03
US	53074851	R32BNRJCA405MH	0062516809	517363553	Wake Up To Your Life: Discovering the Buddhist Path of Attention	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	What the Buddha taught . . .	This is definitely a book that will remain close at hand as I struggle through my meditation practice (such as it is, or isn't at times!). This guidebook helps to set up a meaningful meditation practice that will achieve results and give direction to the hard work of analysis and finding inner truth.<br />The author writes clearly and makes difficult mental images come alive. Stephen Batchelor claims that &quot;Ken McLeod's eminently practical manual goes straight to the heart of what the Buddha taught.&quot; Becoming fully alive, living joyfully and with compassion are goals that the reader can clearly see being set out and achieved.<br />But this is hard work. I have read through the book once, but must read each step in the practice to keep on track. I think that this will be a life time endeavor and will, as pointed out in many places, eventually require a teacher.	2002-02-03
US	53074851	RHAIIQ23Q59NI	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	4	18	20	N	Y	Eternal truths	Those familiar with Bishop Spong know they are in for an exciting ride with his up-to-date theology and take no prisoner positions with regard to interpreting the life of Jesus of Nazareth. In Rescuing the Bible, Bishop Spong certainly doesn't disappoint those of us who follow him and his refreshing look at Christian scriptures.<br />This is definitely a work for those who wish to reclaim some meaning in the ancient scriptures in light of our modern world and our own life experiences in this post-modern environment. One doesn't have to abandon scripture to make sense out of the real meaning behind the stories, one simply needs to understand the context and accept that things are a bit different today.<br />You must read this volume if you are a serious Biblical scholar - even if you disagree completely, it is worth understanding an alternative point of view. Be not afraid, Bishop Spong is striving to bring Christianity and the Bible to life for modern people. This is a revival, not a wake!	2002-02-03
US	53074851	R37JK16AF5JTAX	0679763996	458475501	The Moral Animal: Why We Are, the Way We Are: The New Science of Evolutionary Psychology	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Who we really are . . .	Yep! That's me on the cover! This book is another recommended by my friend Dr. Gus Rath. I've enjoyed every book he has recommended so far, and this book is no exception. In fact, I have ordered several additional copies and given them out as gifts. This is definitely a challenging read, but puts things in perspective in regards to the question of \\"Why are we the way we are?\\"<br />Not an easy read, but the effort pays off with new insights into our human nature and some of the biological and environmental reasons we think and act in our own unique manner. One cannot, I think, read this volume without coming face to face with the reality that we are all responding, at different levels, to programming from our genes and our environment. The decisions we make between competing moral values is truly a mixture of those program subroutines we are not even aware are running in our \\"computer brain.\\"<br />There is not much comfort for those looking for a \\"meaning\\" to life, or simple answers about our interaction with our environment. But if one sticks with the author, the reward is a bit of insight into the real Darwinian equation. One notable quotation concerning free will versus determinism, Wright notes that: \\"Darwin saw all of this. He didn't know about genes, but he certainly knew about the concept of heredity, and he was a scientific materialist; he didn't think any nonphysical forces were needed to explain human behavior, or anything else in the natural world.\\"<br />Be prepared to be enlightened. This is a must read for anyone seriously pursuing knowledge of our human nature.	2002-02-02
US	53074851	R3LC74VT46CQDX	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A real patriot	The size of this book is intimidating, so I purchased it in electronic format and am reading it now. I must say, it has truly captured my attention even though I'm not a history buff. And it has lived up to its reputation as being well written and very interesting. The liberal use of quotations from Adams' letters has made this book a window into the life and times of John Adams and I am thoroughly delighted to have read it. I do recommend using an electronic version if you have the equipment.<br /> One is struck with the incredible integrity of John Adams and his faithful use of his ethical system. He was almost always consistent in his approach to problems and was therefore dependable and predictable. His commitment to our country was nothing short of monumental and in these trying times, it is good to read of a true patriot who understood that he and his country had to be held to a very high standard indeed.<br />McCullough's book is definitely worth the time to read and one should not be put off by its size, the time will fly more quickly than you can imagine.	2002-02-02
US	53074851	R3FNYFDCND6LDO	0824518659	268142346	The Sacred Impulse: A Planetary Spirituality of Heart and Fire	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Sacred Story	This book is a gift from a dear friend and has already given me a wonderful belly laugh! In a litany of things needing to die and things needing to be born, Conlon pointed out that \\"Your right brain needs to be born and your left brain needs to be happy about it.\\" Oh how true! Well, for me at least.<br />This is a wonderful resource for meditation and introspection. Exploring our own humanness is sometimes difficult and painful. Conlon eases us into the hard work with beautiful words and meaningful insight. Through use of examples from his own life experiences, Conlon brings us into focus with our own world.	2002-02-02
US	53074851	R1RN7KMSK6V26C	0465073514	585974657	Kinds Of Minds: Toward An Understanding Of Consciousness (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	40	41	N	Y	Know your mind . . .	I got started on Dennett's many books when a friend recommended Consciousness Explained and I haven't been able to put the topic down ever since. Dennett continues his clear, straightforward style in this book which is much more readable than Consciousness Explained, but still provides ample challenge for the reader.<br />Dennett starts with the statement, &quot;I am a philosopher, not a scientist,&quot; yet his command of what is going on in the sciences is most impressive. His ability to make incredibly complex ideas of evolution understandable to the lay person is amazing and consistent. Through the use of words and diagrams, we are brought up to date on the latest thinking on what mind is and how it is evolving.<br />Kinds of Minds tackles very emotional and controversial topics such as &quot;are we so sure that all humans have minds? . . . Could it be that all animals and even plants and even bacteria have minds?. . . What kinds of minds are there?&quot; The reader is then lead through a series of logical steps, replete with information on the latest scientific and philosophical thought, and left to finally decide these big questions on his or her own.<br />This is definitely a must read book for those interested in the human mind, consciousness, and ethical treatment of our fellow beings in this interconnected web of all existence.	2001-09-27
US	53074851	R15P1P94LOOP8S	0060655879	694239700	The Complete Gospels : Annotated Scholars Version (Revised & expanded)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The Gospel Truth . . .	I have read several of the Jesus Seminar series now and have many more on the shelf to read as well as books from some of the individual scholars. But what intrigues me about this volume is the cross reference work and foot notes that help me to better understand the context of the Gospels. In addition, there is the delight of gospels of which I had never heard prior to this book.<br />This work, and the companion work The Acts of Jesus, comprise an awesome set of references for serious New Testament work. The incredible amount of reference and cross-reference helps tie all the loose ends together for the lay person as well as professional. Another must have for the reference library!	2001-09-27
US	53074851	R25SE31ETRWDDO	0060629789	160959178	The Acts of Jesus: What Did Jesus Really Do?	Books	5	35	42	N	Y	What would Jesus Do?	I have read several of the Jesus Seminar series now and have many more on the shelf to read as well as books from some of the individual scholars. But what intrigues me about this volume is the cross reference work and foot notes that help me to better understand the context of the what Jesus did and what was done to him.<br /> After reading much of this volume, I can say that I was not disappointed in the thorough and logical way in which the case for the historical acts by and toward Jesus were developed. This book will find a prominent place on my reference shelf for those times when I need a detailed analysis to answer the question, &quot;What would Jesus do?&quot;<br />A must have for any serious New Testament work.	2001-09-27
US	53074851	RDMGPJX6YMJKU	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Wild and Zany Ride . . .	I have heard so many references to this book recently that I had put it on my list of books to fill in between the more challenging reading I have to do. The last straw was when a visiting minister to our pulpit used this guide as a jumping of point to explaining the our religious practices to newcomers. So of to the on-line store and soon this nifty little volume was at my doorstep.<br />What a blast! The antics of Arthur Dent and Ford Perfect are so zany that they have to make you chuckle if not laugh outright. And the perpetually sad robot, Marvin, infuriates the reader as quickly as the other characters in the book. So if you want a break and a thoroughly enjoyable romp through the Universe, this is the best place to start. I'm bound to pick up the rest in this series in order to continue to partake in this dry English humor.	2001-09-27
US	53074851	R39TYZBO0PBJR1	0553380117	727763496	Sabbath: Finding Rest, Renewal, and Delight in Our Busy Lives	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Finding peace in these troubled times . . .	Finding rest renewal and delight in our busy lives. This is a wonderful little volume that now starts my day off in a very peaceful and contemplative way.<br />I took my time with this book. I savored each morning as I read only one of the &quot;meditations&quot; to start my day and then tried to remember and think about the meditation during the day some time. The Sabbath practices are doable in our every day lives and picking one or two will definitely add a new dimension to your day. And in light of the recent tragedies on our country, we could all use a little peace and Sabbath in our lives.	2001-09-27
US	53074851	R29I5S3Z6GPOXV	0030515661	300019220	A spirituality named compassion and the healing of the global village, Humpty Dumpty and us	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Dancing Sarah's Circle	Uniting Mystical Awareness with Social Justice. This book was a gift from a dear friend, and what a gift it has turned out to be. I will always be mindful of the difference between climbing Jacob's Ladder and dancing Sarah's Circle. It is such a perfect metaphor for the lives we have built. It is especially poignant to have read this volume and finished it so close to the recent tragedies here in the US on 9/11/01. It makes me wonder exactly how much of the hate directed at our country is due to the Jacob's Ladder world we have created. It is high time that we paid attention to dancing instead of climbing.<br />Matthew had so much to teach me about compassion - that it is not pity but celebration, not sentiment but making justice and doing works of mercy, and that it is not private or ego-centric but public. Then Matthew helps us to understand how the teachings in our culture, that of ever climbing - the ladders of success or acquisitions - and distancing ourselves from others and how those teachings separate us from compassion, can be a significant cause of pain in our world.<br />Many of us know the song to which Matthew refers: We are climbing Jacob's Ladder / Soldiers of the Cross. We may not be familiar with the corollary to that song (sung to the same tune): We are Dancing Sarah's Circle / Sisters, Brothers, All. The message of this book - give up being &quot;Soldiers of the Cross,&quot; and instead become &quot;Sisters, Brothers, All,&quot; is definitely a message for our time.	2001-09-27
US	53074851	RMIWFFZ6HJEUQ	0812521331	613313852	People of the Wolf (The First North Americans series, Book 1)	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	A wonderful hero story that sneaks in some history to boot!	This is not my usual fare, but was loaned to me by a friend. I found the book so interesting that I immediately purchased a copy for myself along with the rest of the series! I am not a history buff and usually do not spend much time reading history. Yet this historical fiction of the people of the North American continent caught my imagination and provided grist for the mill in a recent presentation I made on the origins of consciousness.  A very well written story with detail of the lives of our ancient ancestors and how we might have lived, evolved, and dreamed. It is refreshing to have a shared hero and heroine, with the story of how our patriarchal society might have also evolved from the life of hunter-gatherers.<br />The Gears bring their considerable knowledge to bare in the weaving of this intriguing story of our heritage. It is obvious that they have paid attention to the details and are trying to put together the most plausible explanation of how life might have been in the transition from the last ice age. The people live in clans and are dependent upon each other for survival. They struggled for leadership just as any other group of humans and fought over the viability for the best ideas of survival. They fought change, they tried hard to maintain their contact with the spiritual side of existence and they were deeply respectful of life.<br />We follow the mammoth hunters as they struggle for survival during the stress of &quot;others&quot; forcing them from their normal hunting grounds and camps. They struggle with the balance of peaceful coexistence and warring to protect the life they know. And then they face the incredible challenge of going against all their accumulated knowledge to follow Wolf Dreamer under the ice to a new land. In many ways, this is a perfect &quot;Campbell hero story&quot; and as such, is inspiring, interesting, and has lessons for us even in this far removed time. I am looking forward to the rest of the series.	2001-08-09
US	53074851	R3UMOGDL0BWSHK	006067539X	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	&quot;The heart cannot worship what the mind rejects.&quot;	Bishop Spong spins and engaging story around his experiences along a very active spiritual path. Personally, I do not know how one writes an autobiography in a humble way, while still standing for your point of view in how events unfolded. In many ways, this book falls into all the traps of the typical autobiography, but the theology was so interesting and the politics of the Episcopal church so intriguing that I found I could not put the book down.<br />&quot;The heart cannot worship what the mind rejects,&quot; declares this Bishop as he goes about trying to move his church into the 21st century - without much success most times. The story of his wife's illness, and subsequent death, made me want to know more about how the stress of being &quot;the Bishop's wife&quot; might have added to her suffering. Not to place blame, but rather to understand and apply lessons to my own life and marriage. And I could not help but identify strongly with the frustration of trying to move a large organization forward. Much of my professional life deals with trying to manage change in organizations, and it seems an overwhelming, thankless, and impossible task at times. In a way, it was helpful to find that it is not only the for profit world that struggles with power, change, and integrity.<br />Since I have had the pleasure of hearing Bishop Spong speak, and the distinct honor to meet him for a brief one on one discussion, I found that I could &quot;hear his voice&quot; as I read this book. I could &quot;see&quot; the sparkle in his eye as he took on some of the antagonists in his story. His theology is considered liberal by almost any standard. I find that not only refreshing, but the only hope we have of saving religious institutes as we go forward. If we do not update our theology, we will be destined to follow England into a secular, non-churched society. I agree with Bishop Spong that &quot;The heart cannot worship what the mind rejects.&quot; Get it and read it and understand the message.nd the message.	2001-08-09
US	53074851	R17SP9FLNWHQSZ	0316180661	358661477	Consciousness Explained	Books	4	13	17	N	Y	A new model to consider . . .	Mr. Daniel C. Dennett is also author of Brainstorms and coauthor of The Mind's I. George Johnson, New York Times Book Review stated that this book was &quot;Brilliant . . as audacious as its title . . .&quot; and I could not agree more. This text is well written and put together in such a manner that the concepts are accessible even to those of us who are not scientists by training. Yet, the change in the model of the brain presented here is very difficult for me to grasp. I like the concept of thinking about a massively parallel processor as the model for how the brain does what it does, but translating that into a new concept of no one central place where &quot;consciousness takes place,&quot; is very difficult indeed. Like many, my view of human consciousness was that there was a central place, an observer that kept me neatly in time and space. Not so, says Dennett.<br />  &quot;Each normal individual of this species [homo sapiens],&quot; says Mr. Dennett, &quot;makes a self. Out of its brain it spins a web of words and deeds, and, like the other creatures, it doesn't have to know what it is doing; it just does it. This web protects it, just like the snail' shell, and provides it a livelihood, just like the spider's web, and advances its prospects for sex, just like the bowerbird's bower.&quot; He goes on to point out that this web of discourse and deeds is as much a biological product as any of the other constructions to be found in the animal world.<br />  Mr. Dennett goes on to explain that this complex set of cultural transmissions (memes) such as tunes, ideas, catch-phrases, clothes fashions, etc. can best be understood as the operation of a &quot;von Neumannesque&quot; virtual machine implemented in the parallel architecture of a brain that was not designed for any such activities. In other words, we have learned to use our brains for new functions as we evolved. And, as we spin this web of discourse, we create for ourselves a sense of time-space and orient ourselves in that time-space in such a way as to disconnect ourselves from &quot;creation&quot; and give ourselves and others a sense of &quot;individual.&quot;<br />  The book concludes with appendices that direct themselves to specialized language and explanations for Philosophers and Scientists. All in all, a very difficult but rewarding read. I found this book challenging to say the least, and yet I highly recommended it to those interested in how the evolution of human consciousness.ient ourselves in that time-space in such a way as to disconnect ourselves from &quot;creation&quot; and give ourselves and others a sense of &quot;individual.&quot;<br />    The book concludes with appendices that direct themselves to specialized language and explanations for Philosophers and Scientists. All in all, a very difficult but rewarding read. I found this book challenging to say the least, and yet I highly recommended it to those interested in how the evolution of human consciousness.	2001-07-27
US	53074851	R343Z6WL33AT39	0767903331	481454878	Digital Darwinism	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Surviving the cutthroat web economy.	Mr. Schwartz is the author of Webonomics. In Digital Darwinism, we are presented with &quot;7 breakthrough business strategies for surviving in the cutthroat web economy.&quot; They are:<br />1. Build a grand that stands for solving problems 2. Allow your prices to fluctuate freely with supply and demand. 3. Let affiliate partners do your marketing for you. 4. Create valuable bundles of information and services. 5. Sell custom-made products online, then manufacture them. 6. Add new value to transactions between buyers and sellers. 7. Integrate digital commerce with absolutely everything.<br />  From a technical point of view, I found little new in these strategies, but perhaps that is because I work in a technology field. For those who are trying to bring a &quot;old economy&quot; business into the &quot;new economy,&quot; this book will be a valuable source of ideas for the inevitable culture shock.<br />  The writing style is clean and concise, and the ideas are clearly presented, illustrated with examples, and brought to us in a believable story form. Even the typeface and page layout make this book easy to read. At the end of each chapter appears a short summary of the key points which can easily serve as a quick refresher when thinking through the implementation of new strategies.<br />  In the end, one must remember that the very lessons of the author will also render his book short lived. Things will change (and are already)! But there are definitely some principles for how to think about this new, evolving digital world that will help us move forward and maintain our position in the evolution of this digital world.	2001-06-05
US	53074851	R2C0GY3U29HKGD	0449908119	649603967	Angry Men, Passive Men: Understanding the Roots of Men's Anger and How to Move Beyond It	Books	4	29	36	N	Y	My dear sir, everything I do is masculine! . . .	Angry Men, Passive Men - understanding the roots of men's anger and how to move beyond it. This excellent volume is replete with personal stories, examples from real life men's support groups, and knowledgeable advice from a practicing therapist. It was, apparently, first published as &quot;In the Company of Men.&quot;<br />Mr. Allen presents material here that may not at first seem new to anyone reading in men's studies these days. But the added value is in the second half of the book where, after convincing us that there are serious reasons to consider why men suppress their feelings, he gives us some ideas of how to break through the barriers. He explains how we will be able to open up to a full range of feelings if we simply stop accepting &quot;the rules written on The Man Box&quot; we're in.<br />Just as the women's movement has begun to dismantle the systemic reasons for being put in &quot;the Woman Box,&quot; men are encouraged to review how and why we are so well indoctrinated by society to fill the stereotype of &quot;man.&quot; We have to start at home and in the society at large to correct limiting views while saving the good aspects of being male. &quot;What men need to do,&quot; Allen tells us, &quot;is draw some distinctions between beliefs and behaviors they want to keep and ones they want to discard. For example, they may see that being able to hide their feelings in a poker game or in the middle of a business deal works to their advantage; there are times when it's important not to show your hand. But hiding their feelings from their wives and their friends keeps them isolated and alone.&quot;<br />I suppose the best recommendation, or review, of this book I can give you is to mention that I have ordered a dozen copies (from Amazon.com of course!) to give to friends and to use in my own men's group. I recommend this excellent work for any man or woman interested in learning more about the male psychology.	2001-05-21
US	53074851	R3PI3DTRJRSX10	0800631307	229496707	Why Christian?	Books	4	13	14	N	N	On the edge of faith . . .	I found this book to be very well written with a rather unique approach of using a &quot;composite character&quot; with whom the author has first a dialogue on a question and then for whom he provides a more thorough essay answer. The reader is caught up in this give and take between professor and student, and the questions are the hard ones! Why Christian? Why Jesus? Saved from What and for What? Why Church? Is there Hope?<br />There are many selected biblical quotations with a clear explanation written in such a way as to leave room for the reader to differ. In almost all cases, respect for other faith systems is maintained, reserving the most direct criticism for the author's own beloved Christianity. Professor Hall recognizes many of the atrocities committed in the name of religions, including Christianity, and explains why such actions are inconsistent with the precepts of those religions. He discusses how birthright so often is a reason for starting out in a religion but how today especially, birthright alone is not enough to keep someone in a given faith system.<br />Appropriately, some of the more fundamental questions are left to the reader to answer. For example, &quot; 'So what precisely (as we may ask with Wendell Berry and others) are human beings for?' If we are not just accidents of nature, what is our place in the scheme of things? What is our purpose and how could we attain it, or reclaim it?&quot; This question is never really answered directly, but is diverted to a related &quot;sense of anxiety&quot; angle.<br />My belief is that this book will be a bit of a disappointment for those looking to find a dogmatic statement of why Christian today. Instead, one finds a respectful questioning of today's Christianity with a deep routed love of what Christianity can be. This is indeed a wonderful resource &quot;for those on the edge of faith.&quot;	2001-05-20
US	53074851	RR9X2R4USNOQ	0944344828	574923913	Reforming Christianity	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Kingdom Come through Sea of Faith . . .	Reforming Christianity is a bit more difficult read than Remedial Christianity but as compelling.<br />I had the pleasure of hearing Professor Cupitt speak at a seminar not long ago, and I find his writing as interesting as his presentation. It helps, too, that I now can hear his voice as I read his book. Each sentence is packed and must be carefully unpacked in order to get the full meaning of his statements. But the effort is worth it since, as you work through the dense words, you begin to see a full picture of the Kingdom Religion that Don Cupitt believes to be so vital to the reformation of Christianity. I refer to such statements such as: &quot;All the doctrinal themes are meant gradually to sink in and become part of one's own being - which gives rise to the paradox that when you have fully become a Christian, you aren't one any longer.&quot; And this: &quot;I have already said that in the process of its reformation, Christianity has to move on from its ecclesiastical period, its 'schooldays', now ending, to its fully adult form, the 'kingdom religion' that Jesus originally lived, preached and hoped to see on earth.&quot;<br />I can think of no other way to get across the new ideas and directions for Christianity than the way Professor Cupitt takes. His well structured thoughts in this logically laid out volume helps put things in perspective. And though I found some of the ideas  difficult to grasp at first reading, subsequent study made them so with little &quot;Ah Ha!&quot; moments. Overall I have to rate this excellent work at least a 4 on a scale of 5. I hope it gets to your reading list for the hard work of continuing on your spiritual path.	2001-05-05
US	53074851	RDKB6JAA2NYDK	0874771641	159029046	Becoming a Writer	Books	3	59	67	N	Y	A great blast from the past!	Becoming a Writer is a reprint from a book originally published in 1934. However, I have found the advice to be timeless and in keeping with that given by modern writers such as Stephen King and Natalie Goldberg. Dorothea Brande writes in clear, concise terms what is needed to become a writer, and like the others, she advises that hard work is what will in the end, be a necessary ingredient. Especially if we are to be conscious competents.<br />I found the chapters on reading as a writer most helpful as I do so much reading and therefore wish to learn as much as I can while doing so. And I was most amazed at the insight that Ms. Brande had with respect to how the mind works. She seems to be well ahead of her times, and I'm not so sure that many would find fault with her take on how genius or &quot;empty mind&quot; is to be encouraged and enhanced.<br />In short, this book is well worth the read and should be on any aspiring writer's shelf. I give it a three out of five rating (and then only because there are more current volumes that provide this information). I am pleased to have spent the time reading this book.	2001-05-05
US	53074851	RA8VZ0W4ZWTO9	0944344771	733089802	Remedial Christianity: What Every Believer Should Know About the Faith, but Probably Doesn't	Books	5	35	42	N	N	Oh what I didn't know!	When I was about one chapter into this book I stopped to wonder why it was called &quot;remedial.&quot; As I continued to read, it dawned on me that this is a perfect title in that while a very broad range of topics relating to the history of Jesus, the Bible, the Church, and various forms of Christianity are covered, they are not covered in depth. Rather, Dr. Laughlin manages to give us enough information to make us stop and think and thirst for more. It would be easy to lapse into well deserved accolades over this book, but suffice it to say that it was exceedingly difficult to put it down and I found myself not able to read two other books at the same time as this one, as would be my normal custom.<br />  I can't help giving an excerpt that is, to me, an outstanding example of the clear and forthright prose from this scholar:<br />  &quot;While the thorough going skepticism of many Unitarian-Universalist may  be too radical for most Christians, it is quite clear that Christianity has taken a turn in that direction and will have to embrace the attitude of Liberalism in a major and deliberate way in order to survive, prosper, and maintain its relevancy in the Third Millennium. The modern scientific world view is simply too pervasive, productive, and compelling to ignore; and all of us reared in the West are so acculturated into it that we simply accept it as the way the world operates. Any religion -- Christian or otherwise -- that demands of its followers that they deny their senses and minds in  order to believe, or that tries to shield them from the prevailing worldview, is doomed to anachronism, retrogression, and eventual oblivion.&quot;<br />  And there are many more worthwhile gems of wisdom and scholarly corrections to common misperceptions about the many different faces of Western Christianity. This book is logically organized, clearly documented with excellent exercises at the end of each chapter. It comes complete with wonderful bibliography and glossary of terms. It will take every lay-person with the curiosity to learn more about Christianity to the next level of understanding.<br />  My sincere wish is that so many Christians, and those of other religious paths, read and learn from this book that a grass roots movement to modernize this wonderful religion takes place. Simply a marvelous text.l bibliography and glossary of terms. It will take every lay-person with the curiosity to learn more about Christianity to the next level of understanding. <br />         My sincere wish is that so many Christians, and those of other religious paths, read and learn from this book that a grass roots movement to modernize this wonderful religion takes place. Simply a marvelous text.	2001-04-20
US	53074851	R2QALADONSZGNO	0553373153	241403529	Long Quiet Highway: Waking Up in America	Books	4	47	47	N	Y	Zen in the art of writing . . .	Waking up in America. Natalie Goldberg weaves a wonderful book based on the details of her life and times. At the same time, this book is perhaps the most interesting explanation of Zen practice that I've read in a long time. By weaving her own story of Zen practice with the principles of writing and giving vision to how each is connected to the other, Goldberg draws the reader into an appreciation of both disciplines.<br />  I found myself mourning just as she described herself to be at the loss of Kitigari Roshi. Somehow, Goldberg had gotten me to be as much in love with Roshi as she, and so the loss was real when she described the events leading up to and then his actual death.  But that is exactly what she tries to explain in the Long Quiet Highway, that we have to experience now, and be open to the present fully, unconditionally. The beauty of this book is that it not only explains in mere words the principles she espouses, but it elicits those feelings directly through the very words we are reading.<br />  Easy insight comes also from her teaching experiences. That is not to imply that the lessons learned were easy for Ms. Goldberg, but rather that her word pictures make it easy for the reader to understand and visualize what actually happened, what lights went on with the students, and how she managed to make that happen. I thought that I would perhaps be a bit bored with this, her fourth book for me, but I could not have been more incorrect.<br />  This book has inspired me to go back and re-read some of the Zen texts I've collected. At the same time, it has encouraged me to make time for my own writing practice - no excuses, no postponing, just do it.	2001-04-17
US	53074851	RNDGODWYW7RDW	0071371788	809923039	e-Strategy, Pure & Simple: Connecting Your Internet Strategy to Your Business Strategy	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	What's your business strategy?	A concise and easily read book on how to watch for the micro, macro, and mega changes that are coming our way.<br />The obvious goal is to get you to use the consulting services, but still, there is solid information about re-thinking business models to accommodate the internet world.<br />Perhaps the most important advice given is to make sure you have a clear business strategy to begin with, update that strategy to be pertinent in this information age, and formulate your Internet strategy to further your business goals. &quot;The Internet is another vehicle to help a company deploy its business strategy. Unfortunately, because of its pervasiveness, the Internet cannot be ignored.&quot;<br />There are several good pieces of information to use as you're thinking about your IT investment, such as: &quot;Eighty-four percent of IT projects are late, over budget, or canceled. The cost to U.S. corporations is over $184 billion per year. Completed projects achieve only 60 percent of their objectives.<br />Charts, drawings, and lists help to make clear the authors' intent. Plenty of white space makes the book easy to read (even on a bouncing aircraft!).	2001-04-04
US	53074851	R1ZBZCBSDE0M95	0944344801	653417052	The Once and Future Jesus	Books	5	49	49	N	N	Let your enemies love you!	The Once and Future Jesus is a compendium of presentations given at one of the many Jesus Seminars. The writing is insightful, in depth, concise, and enlightening. This is must reading for anyone serious about bible study.<br />Each of the contributors to this book sheds new and different light on what I once thought I understood. The gems almost slip by you, such as this one from Robert Funk:  &quot;Love your enemies is probably the most radical thing Jesus ever said. Unless, of course, one considers the parable of the Samaritan. There the admonition is to let your enemies love you.&quot; Perhaps this is not a new slant for many readers, but for me, it was a fresh way to view a wonderful, familiar parable.<br />And it is so good to have a female point of view. Karen L. King, in Back to the Future, opens our minds to the gospel of Mary and how the &quot;basis for leadership lay in a person's spiritual maturity, not any ephemeral physical characteristic like gender or sexuality.&quot;<br />And of course, the indomitable Bishop John Shelby Spong gives the reader hope for the survival of Christianity in his essay, Christ and the Body of Christ.  And Lloyd Geering point out in The Legacy of Christianity that &quot;It was the ancient Israelites who abolished the gods of nature who prevented humans from interfering with their domain. It was the ancient Israelites who declared that humans had been given dominion over the earth by its one and only Creator. It was the ancient Israelites who desacralized the sun, moon, and heavenly bodies and proclaimed that the heavens and the earth belonged to one created system.&quot; This small book, packed with new insight, was for me an excellent read.	2001-04-04
US	53074851	RK33ZBDLZQN45	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	18	27	N	N	Revisit the Buddha!	This remarkable little book has done more to enhance my understanding of Buddhism and my own Judeo-Christian heritage than I could have imagined. Karen Armstrong's clear and concise writing lead me through some interpretations of the Buddha's life that had never occurred to me and has pointed out some of the same &quot;problems&quot; that I have had with other &quot;sacred&quot; writings.<br />  I have come to appreciate the mythical proportions of the story of Siddhatta Gotama, and realize now that there are as many unknowns about his life as there are about Jesus or other ancient prophets. The story of Siddhatta's originally sheltered life of prince who saw the injustice and suffering in the world, went of to gain special powers, and then came back to &quot;save the people&quot; follows the Joseph Campbell hero's story. In addition, it is a story that was often told in Buddha's time. It is a metaphor for the human mind awakening to the suffering in the world caused by our own acquisitiveness.<br />  Then too, those disciples left after Buddha's death slowly deified him by embellishing the story and expanding it as needed to include the prejudices of those in power at the time of the telling or recording. Gotama did not want deification or a religious cult following. Nevertheless, just as with Jesus and Christianity, those that were left used the hero story to their own ends. They built a two tier order with special education and in depth understanding of the mystical nature of Dhamma for the Bhikkhus and a more lenient worldly teaching for the lay followers.<br />  Like most axial period religions, Bhuddism was not inclusive of women. The contradiction is blatant in that Buddha taught that the Dhamma was open to everybody: gods, animals, robbers, men of all castes - so were women to be excluded? And under what logic? When he was finally convinced that he was wrong not to allow women into the Sangha, Buddha set much stricter rules that subjugated the nuns to the bhikkhu. In other words, the women were once again relegated to second class citizenship in the Buddhist world.<br />  An excellent book with new, fresh insight into this most interesting philosophy. And it is especially interesting to read after hearing Ms. Armstrong speak and learning a little bit about her as a person. A most remarkable opportunity that I can only hope will come again in the future.to the bhikkhu. In other words, the women were once again relegated to second class citizenship in the Buddhist world.<br />     An excellent book with new, fresh insight into this most interesting philosophy. And it is especially interesting to read after hearing Ms. Armstrong speak and learning a little bit about her as a person. A most remarkable opportunity that I can only hope will come again in the future.	2001-03-23
US	53074851	R2TA162MIY9O1Y	0312154291	886588898	Probable Tomorrows: How Science and Technology Will Transform Our Lives in the Next Twenty Years	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Driving blindfolded . . .	and taking directions from someone in the back seat looking out the back window. That's one definition of forecasting. Despite the hazards, the authors bravely predict what is going to happen with some very interesting developments in the business world.<br />Probable Tomorrows was interesting to read since it was written in 1997 and made some predictions for &quot;today&quot; that we can use as a benchmark for accuracy. And all in all, the predictions were good. The tables at the end of the book, and the timeline for changes can be used to help us see what we might need to do to update our company strategies (as outlined in a recent book e-Strategy).<br />  Some of the topics discussed here were expanded upon in the futuristic book The Age of Spiritual Machines by Ray Kurzweil. Between these two books, a broad brush look at what we are in store for emerges and may indeed give us some hints on how to formulate business strategy to take us into the future. Overall, I would rate this book a 3 out of 5. It was well written and easy  to read, but books that attempt to forecast the future are qickly dated.	2001-03-23
US	53074851	R3RNVFYEO63MMP	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	5	18	25	N	N	Loving Wastefully	This is definitely a book that opened my mind to new views of the Christian Bible. I have long said that while I think there are good lessons in the Bible, it cannot, and should not be taken literally, nor be considered to be inerrant in content. Because I had neither the time nor inclination to become a New Testament Scholar, I had no way to verbalize my belief or argue with those who professed to &quot;Know.&quot; Here then, is a book that a lay person can read, understand, and evaluate based on your own common sense.<br />More importantly, this book has given me a whole new way to view Jesus and perhaps be more accepting of his lessons. Bishop Spong uses the phrase &quot;Christian in exile&quot; to describe how he feels. He is in exile because much, if not all, of the organized Christian religion today calls for us to believe in things that require us to suspend our common sense. Yet, many are also not comfortable leaving the faith of their childhood. So perhaps they sit quietly or say the words of the liturgy while footnoting in their minds what the &quot;really&quot; think is true.<br />Bishop Spong also chooses to use the words &quot;Ground of Being&quot; to express more clearly his concept of God. In the preface to the book, Bishop Spong states, &quot;This book has been in progress for more than twenty years. It is a work of faith and conviction. It is my witness as one who desires to worship as a citizen of the modern world and to be able to think as I worship. I write it as a person to whom the Christian Church has accorded honor, rank, and the privilege of leadership in the episcopal office. It comes thus from the life of a bishop whose vows at the time of my consecration included both a promise to defend the faith and to guard the unity of the church. The vocation of doing just that in a rapidly changing world has been my privilege for almost a quarter of a century.&quot; And in this book he does indeed defend the faith - against the establishment that tries to keep the faith by ignoring the realities of our modern world. As he states, Christianity must change, or it will, inevitably, die. I would expand that to say any religion today must take into account our growing understanding of our physical world.<br />If, in my youth, I had ministers who thought as clearly as Bishop Spong does now, I might still be in the Christian faith. But, like so many of my friends, even those still attending a Christian church, I refuse to check my brain at the door. Now I find that I have more time to explore my own spirituality, read those who have made theology their life, and further, I am in a position to process all this with a mind free of dogmatic interpretations. It is too late for me to return to Christianity, but I can now reclaim Jesus as a peripatetic sage who has many lessons worth learning. I hope that those still practicing Christian faith will help open the minds of their peers to read the scriptures with new eyes, keeping their faith living and healthy - with no congregants checking their brains at the door.<br />Thank you Bishop Spong for having the courage to write this book, for having the courage to go on saying what you believe despite sixteen death threats from bible quoting Christians, and for loving us wastefully enough to want to bring meaning into our post modern lives.ies to keep the faith by ignoring the realities of our modern world. As he states, Christianity must change, or it will, inevitably, die. I would expand that to say any religion today must take into account our growing understanding of our physical world.<br />If, in my youth, I had ministers who thought as clearly as Bishop Spong does now, I might still be in the Christian faith. But, like so many of my friends, even those still attending a Christian church, I refuse to check my brain at the door. Now I find that I have more time to explore my own spirituality, read those who have made theology their life, and further, I am in a position to process all this with a mind free of dogmatic interpretations. It is too late for me to return to Christianity, but I can now reclaim Jesus as a peripatetic sage who has many lessons worth learning. I hope that those still practicing Christian faith will help open the minds of their peers to read the scriptures with new eyes, keeping their faith living and healthy - with no congregants checking their brains at the door.<br />Thank you Bishop Spong for having the courage to write this book, for having the courage to go on saying what you believe despite sixteen death threats from bible quoting Christians, and for loving us wastefully enough to want to bring meaning into our post modern lives.	2001-03-17
US	53074851	R323XRCU5ODZ9T	0375411127	671471991	The Future of Success	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Why am I working so many hours?	If you have been working more and enjoying it less, or even if you've been enjoying it more, this book can explain why. Well documented and reasonably argued positions on why the &quot;new economy&quot; is going in the direction it is provides insights into the phenomena we are likely all to be experiencing at work, but have not been able to figure out ourselves. Robert Reich takes us through the history of how we got here as well as the common misconceptions of our times. He points out, for example, that contrary to popular belief today's innovators are not necessarily particularly adept at using new information technology. He points out that they are creative workers. He then breaks the creative workers into two groups defined as &quot;Geeks,&quot; and &quot;Shrinks.&quot; The Geeks provide the creative innovations from a technology point of view, but the Shrink provides the marketing intelligence as to what people really want for the product or service. Reich's thesis is that technology is speeding and broadening access to &quot;terrific deals.&quot; That is driving everything including worker mobility since they are selling their own services. The look for the best deal as an employee much as the employer looks for the best deal in materials as well employees. One of the difficulties facing workers in this new age is that they will not be able to predict their &quot;bottom line&quot; income. Because payment is based on value added at almost all levels of the economy, your annual income will depend on a great many changing parameters. To put it in his terms, &quot;the fabulous new deals of the fabulous new economy carry a steep price: more frenzied lives, less security, more economic and social stratification, the loss of time and energy for family, friendship, community and self.&quot; We must all be aware of this change and manage the high touch part of our high tech lives.	2001-03-12
US	53074851	R1QB73XZ5GGSFB	0060670991	474088646	Why Religion Matters: The Fate of the Human Spirit in an Age of Disbelief	Books	2	32	44	N	Y	No real answers here . . .	Having read this book, with some difficulty in sticking to it, I have to admit that the word \\"shrill,\\" comes to mind. I was disappointed with how Mr. Smith tried to approach this subject and confess to having learned a great deal more reading David Ray Griffin's book Religion and Scientific Naturalism. At least there, concrete steps for both Religion and Science were given. Mr. Smith, using broken flashlight analogies, diatribes against science, and references to fictional books (Kingsolver) tries to build a case for traditionalism. He is far from successful.<br />Still, there are passages that do provide some food for thought and a bit of enlightenment. I was looking for more concrete understanding of the opposing views. In the end, Mr. Smith seems to lay the whole responsibility for reconciling science and religion at science's door. Intuitively, one knows that religion owns some of the problems with the reconciliation, so what are they?<br />Perhaps theologians have enough \\"world view\\" to understand how science can coexist with religion, but what about the masses who have to live every day with the conflicts between what they observe, what is accepted knowledge, what is practical and what is the religious instruction given to them to believe? I did not find real help with these questions.	2001-02-24
US	53074851	R25DN6LVA0TDS0	155963779X	783017384	Human Natures: Genes, Cultures, and the Human Prospect	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Our many complex natures	According to Jared Diamond, &quot;The one book to read on human evolution.&quot; Human Natures is clear, quite readable, and concise thus bringing a difficult subject into focus. Ehrlich disabused me of several notions that I had built up over many years of reading about evolution in various publications. No longer will I blame &quot;genes&quot; for everything that goes right and wrong in my life or the lives of those around me. Certainly, genes will still hold a prominent position in my understanding of human natures (plural, for there are many), but our environment will be moved up as at least an equal partner. Here is an example of his excellent style; Ehrlich writes (page 119 &amp; 120): &quot;Despite the uncertainties, several general points with particular evolutionary relevance about the mechanisms of the human brain seem quite will established. In summary, they key points are as follows:  1. The brain is an organ that, like other organs, has evolved a structure that serves its various functions.  2. The brain can compensate for partial damage and, often, keep thinking.  3. The brain has many &quot;programs&quot;--connected sets of neurons--that have been built in over hundreds of millions of years by natural selection.  4. More recently evolved programs in the brain enable us to solve problems of relationships and causation that are difficult or impossible for other animals to solve.  5. Although selection has led to these capabilities by creation of appropriate genotypes, appropriate environments (both internal and external) are essential to produce the  behavioral characteristics we observe.  6. Natural selection has designed the brain's programs to bias certain perceptions and behaviors.  7. Nonetheless, the genetic code does not build specific instructions into the brain's structure for dealing with every conceivable behavioral situation or even large numbers of them.  8. Natural selection has trouble doing just one thing at a time with respect to the brain, just as with other organs. It is unlikely, for example, that selection could produce a brain program that predisposes females to desire males with curly hair without changing other programs of the brain or, perhaps, other aspects of the human phenotype.&quot;<br />  Ehrlich then goes on to explain all these concepts in detail with easily understood supporting evidence, arguments, and theories. From genes, to religion, to cultures, our complex human natures are unraveled and put before us to see and recognize as the wonder they are. Evolution of the human species is explained in the timeframe and the manner supported by the best scientific evidence of the day. Yet, the wonder and mystery of sentient beings is not in any way denigrated. This is definitely a book to read, and perhaps the only one those of us not in the sciences needs to read for some time to come.respect to the brain, just as with other organs. It is unlikely, for example, that selection could produce a brain program that predisposes females to desire males with curly hair without changing other programs of the brain or, perhaps, other aspects of the human phenotype.&quot;<br />   Ehrlich then goes on to explain all these concepts in detail with easily understood supporting evidence, arguments, and theories. From genes, to religion, to cultures, our complex human natures are unraveled and put before us to see and recognize as the wonder they are. Evolution of the human species is explained in the timeframe and the manner supported by the best scientific evidence of the day. Yet, the wonder and mystery of sentient beings is not in any way denigrated. This is definitely a book to read, and perhaps the only one those of us not in the sciences needs to read for some time to come.	2001-01-03
US	53074851	RAGMMU6BZH9QU	0877733759	725531037	Writing Down the Bones: Freeing the Writer Within	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Feel it in your bones	Ms. Goldberg takes us through the easy answers about how to avoid bad writing and gets right down to the bones. She clearly lays the groundwork for soulful, insightful writing that will captivate your readers. But it's hard work. Natalie doesn't let us shirk. That she is a worthy mentor is abundantly clear as you read her book. Her sentences are clear and easy to read, yet flow smoothly on leading you through the story and her thoughts. In true Zen fashion, we learn that the secret to great writing is subtracting rules for writing, not adding them. It is not easy to teach us, or anyone else, to unlearn what we've worked so hard to acquire. But Natalie's Zen training comes to her aid and she shares her insights with us in this excellent book on writing.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	R2GV4LXIAEXKOK	0835808629	333643970	Journeymen: A Spiritual Guide for Men (And Women Who Want to Understand Them)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Ask the right question:	Groff states that the popular slogan &quot;What would Jesus do?&quot; needs translation. &quot;What would Jesus be doing,&quot; or &quot;What would Jesus BE,&quot; is more appropriate.<br />Journeymen is a spiritual guide for men, and for women who want to understand them. A gift, in more ways than one, this book has definitely added clarity to my spiritual journey. Seneca said: &quot;Without knowing which port one is sailing toward, there is no such thing as a favorable wind.&quot; This book can help you understand the port for which you should be sailing, and helps you with the dead-reckoning along the way.<br />Modeled after 12 step programs, the book and its 12 chapters provide much for us to contemplate on our journey. Meditations, prayer practices, rest areas, and excursions provide variety on our way as well as many ideas for future excursions and side trips. But &quot;Journeymen&quot; is also another word for apprentices. And so, while this small, easily read volume will be a resource for our men's group for many months to come, it will also be a great individual resource for my own difficult individual soul work. It is well worth the read and serious consideration of today's renaissance man.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	R3N6F243CFZ3HY	0553095285	957910286	Thunder and Lightning: Cracking Open the Writer's Craft	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Lightning does strike three times!	In this excellent sequel to Writing Down The Bones, and Wild Mind. Ms. Goldberg shares a compelling story of her life while giving us lessons on writing. She continues the theme of practice writing and emphasizes how important it is for success. Revealed also, is how important it is to read. From reading we learn what we like and don't like about writers, styles, and techniques. Of course, reading also gives us grist for the mill.<br />Natalie comes through in this book. We know her and what drives her after reading this selection. The fact that we also learn something about her craft is almost secondary. Some may think we also learn more about Natalie than we need or want to, but if you think so,  then perhaps the point is missed. It is from our panexperiential existence that we draw meaning for life and Natalie teaches us how to translate that experience to the written word.  She does so not only by overt instruction, but by covert story telling all at once. Here books on writing definitely need to be on any writers shelf for frequent reference.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	RQWX8PLQOEOXA	0791445631	391771153	Religion and Scientific Naturalism: Overcoming the Conflicts (Suny Series in Constructive Postmodern Thought)	Books	5	26	30	N	Y	Give it up!	Through his book, Mr. Griffin has helped me answer one of the big questions that has bothered me since my undergraduate years in Electrical Engineering - how to resolve my sense of mystery in the world around me with my understanding and appreciation of the scientific method of inquiry. In a nutshell, the answer is that both Science and Religion have to give up some long held beliefs and dogmatic statements of &quot;fact.&quot; Put succinctly;<br />\\"Belief in the supernatural causes problems for religion it can not solve, and supernaturalism makes religion incompatible with science. For both reasons, religion needs to give it up.\\"<br />\\"Belief in materialism causes problems for science it can not solve, and materialism makes science incompatible with religion. For both reasons, science needs to give it up.\\"<br />In addition to the views on resolution of this de facto conflict between religion and science, Mr. Griffin's book has shed a considerable amount of light on my meager understanding of Alfred North Whitehead's writings around what I refer to as Process Theology. It has encouraged me to study further my own philosophy and theology and to explore how it fits with my understanding of the material world. As a technologist, it seems imperative for me to clearly understand this issue if for no other reason than to have a sound basis for ethical conduct in our increasingly technology dependent society. So to that end, this book is must reading for all of us, since we will all have to make ethical decisions about advancement in technology from creation of &quot;spiritual machines,&quot; to genetic manipulation.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	R1T6JBGVKVEZTK	0275968367	258868623	The Quest for Charisma: Christianity and Persuasion	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Charisma revealed.	I had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Smith speak at a presentation to a local church group. He spoke on the real meaning of the word charisma, and how we pretty much misuse it today. We frequently use the word to mean someone who is a good speaker, or presenter. But the meaning of the word, to Mr. Smith, goes much deeper than that. He posits that there are at least three levels of &quot;charismatic speakers.&quot; The first level is accessible to many individuals who take the time to master the principles of persuasive speaking. The second level of charisma is more difficult to achieve because it requires a speaker to be &quot;authentic,&quot; by which Mr. Smith means they know who they are and they take responsibility for their actions and what they advocate. And the third level of charismatic speaker reaches beyond the material world to associate in some way with the metaphysical, the transcendent, the spiritual, or some other form of perfection.<br />Mr. Smith then goes on to give examples of each of these levels of charismatic persons, drawing from history and our understanding of historic figures such as Socrates, Plato, Jesus, Buddha, and Augustine. This text is one every public speaker and/or clergy should read and understand.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	R1RE6XJP57TNTU	1578511402	111485236	The Monk and the Riddle : The Education of a Silicon Valley Entrepreneur	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Scrambled Eggs	Mr. Komisar weaves an interesting story about his experiences as a Silicon Valley entrepreneur and venture capitalist. Along the way, he imparts important lessons for the would be start up company leaders. There are many practical business lessons here, but also some important life lessons such as making sure we do not sacrifice our lives, for the wrong reasons, working to start a company. For there is no doubt about the hard work that is necessary to start a company from scratch. So it had better be something that makes your heart sing.<br />But even if you have no intention of starting your own business, this book is valuable to any of us working in the technology field. And technology continues to touch more and more of us every day, so it is vital that we understand what is driving the new emerging economy. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in where we might be going from here. The riddle? Imagine I have a raw egg in my hand, and I want to drop it three feet without it breaking. How would I do that? Don't answer now, sit with it for awhile. Think about it. Read the book to get the answer.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	R1IF1FYUDV27NP	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	The Master Speaks!	While giving us a no-holds-barred lesson on what it takes to be a good writer, Stephen King also weaves the story of his life into this remarkable book. Complete with a reading list, this book will be a useful resource for the aspiring writer for years to come. Some simple rules are put forth: &quot;If you don't have time to read, you don't have the time or the tools to write&quot; and &quot;Put your desk in the corner, and every time you sit down there to write, remind yourself why it isn't in the middle of the room. Life isn't a support-system for art. It's the other way around.&quot;<br />Like one of his fiction novels, this book keeps you running from page to page. It begins with a fascinating account of Mr. King's childhood, and before you know it, you're in the middle of &quot;how to write.&quot; At the end, after we are quite firmly on the hook, we get the lesson on editing. Ruthless editing. Mr. King shows us how to follow the 10% rule, that is, 2nd draft = 1st draft - 10%. We are given the detailed explanation for each of the editing changes, and it serves to drive home each of the clear lessons given throughout the book. It is an excellent summary section, and one that can serve as an example for any writer (or editor). In short, a necessary addition to an bookshelf.	2000-11-26
US	53074851	R391C0F01JKPDN	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	1	4	13	N	N	Plainsong - the song of middle America	I found travel through this book to be difficult without the familiar sign posts of quotation marks! I'm not at all sure what this new &quot;format&quot; is supposed to accomplish, but this is the second book I've read that did not use quotation marks and I find it disconcerting. It was as if I kept passing beautiful landscapes or scenic rest areas and had to stop and go back to really enjoy the views. It seemed to me to be a waste of energy and a source of frustration just like driving in  an unfamiliar town where the street signs are obliterated or missing.  Still, once used to the terrain, I was able to appreciate the marvelous scenes unfolding in Holt. The people became real and their stories were that of middle American life. Their problems, concerns, and interactions were familiar, not fake or contrived. Heroes lost fights, good people made mistakes and normally thoughtful, caring people did thoughtless, careless things.  The values of individuals and the community can be discerned as we watch Ike and Bobby grow up. We see the work ethic as they deliver papers before school and their father takes over for them when they are out of town. We learn of human values of compassion as the McPheron brothers take in Victoria Roubideaux and give her a safe environment in which to live. We are witness to living, loving, and dying and the manner in which these rites of passage are received by the new friends in Holt.  Plainsong is the song of middle America. It is told in engaging detail, helping us feel at home in Holt. The characters are revealed to us over time, and eventually, we know just about the whole community. No wonder this was a New Yorker Book Award finalist. Well worth the read.	2000-10-16
US	53074851	R1VJKG32RYQM0L	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	67	72	N	N	Midwives - a story for our times.	This is a book I couldn't put down. It is amazing how Mr. Bohjalian was able to put into writing the feelings of women during childbirth. Certainly it is difficult enough to express those feelings, but to do so as a man  shows an incredible amount of compassion and understanding. A lesson to us  all, I'm sure.  This is a tightly written novel concerning a normally  safe home birth gone terribly wrong, and how it affects the lives of all  those involved. It twists and turns and leads the reader to wrong  assumptions over and over again. At the same time it manages to bring forth  the mystery and wonder of life, and especially the moment of birth. The  novel is written from the point of view of the Midwife's daughter, who is,  at the time of the writing, a doctor, specifically an OB/GYN. Armed with  first hand knowledge as well as her mother's copious notes, Constance spins  the story of her mother's passion for midwifery, devotion to her trade, and  tragic loss of that love after the death of one of her mothers.  The  trial scenes are wonderfully exciting and maddening at the same time. But  more important is the story of love and support in the Danforth family,  though not without it's stress and misunderstandings. And Constance tells  her own story of growing up and through the tragedy of the public trial,  her mother's too close relationship with her lawyer, and her father's  struggle to understand and support his wife. All in all, a wonderful book  that surprised me a great deal. Thanks to my wife and our book club for  getting me to read it.	2000-04-05
US	53074851	R308EPBSUYJ9QQ	080505880X	749684877	When Things Start to Think	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	Bossy Refridgerators?	An excellent book for the layperson to understand where computing is headed and where the lines between life sciences and technology blur. Gershenfeld makes it easy to understand how our lives will be affected by  the incredible advances we are making in all fields of science. This book  belongs on the shelf right along side Kurzweil, Norman and Metcalfe. It  will round out our comprehension of the future, both near and farther out  on the horizon.  I learned about PEM three-dimensional printers and how  they will help us model our ideas. I learned about the all too easy use of  buzzwords such as &quot;fuzzy logic&quot; to confuse the public into  thinking something &quot;new&quot; is happening. I learned a great new  definition for religion-&quot;Beliefs about our existence that are not  falsifiable have a central place in human experience-they're called  religion.&quot; And I learned about a great place for students of all  backgrounds to work together for fun and maybe even profit-the Media labs  at MIT.  And I found an answer to a question that has long been  bothering me. &quot;Marvin Minsky believes that the study of artificial  intelligence failed to live up to its promise, not because of any lack of  intelligence in the programs or the programmers, but because of the limited  life experience of a computer that can't see, or hear, or move.&quot;  Anyone with even a hint of questions about the future and what it might  hold for us should pick up this book. It is marvelous reading, despite the  weight of the subject matter!	2000-04-05
US	53074851	R3P2J05YGGQ79L	1576750140	296366945	The New Organizational Wealth: Managing and Measuring Knowledge-Based Assets	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Knowledge as Wealth	There is a thirst for understanding how to manage the &quot;new&quot; companies that are knowledge based rather than founded on product manufacturing. Here is a book to help with that quest. Sveiby explains  that, as an example, the public was willing to pay, in 1995, an average  price of $70 for Microsoft when their book value was about $7. In other  words, the shareholders saw about $9 of additional value for every $1 of  tangible assets on Microsoft's books. There is no entry on Microsoft's  balance sheet for that $9, and it represents a major trend in our  &quot;post industrial&quot; economy. How do we manage such an illusive  asset?  Sveiby steps us through (1) understanding the era of knowledge  Organizations, (2) managing intangible assets, and (3) measuring intangible  assets. There are practical examples of measuring systems, how to organize  a company to maintain and transfer knowledge, and keys to developing  professional competence.  Sveiby defines, for the purpose of this book,  knowledge as &quot;a capacity to act.&quot; &quot;One's capacity to act is  created continuously by a process-of-knowing. In other words, it is  contextual. Knowledge cannot be separated from its context. The notion also  implies teleological purpose. I believe that the human process-of-knowing  is designed by nature to help us survive in an often hostile  environment.&quot;  I learned about the professional's three life  cycles - the super star, the statesman, and the normal professional. I  learned about the classic problem of organic growth in our knowledge  organizations. And I re-learned that &quot;it takes time, experience, and  mental effort to turn information into useful knowledge. And since  recipients cannot know until afterward whether it was worth spending that  time, information that turns out to be worthless is really worth less than  nothing.&quot;  For those trying to understand the new business model,  this book is well worth the time and effort. It will help you move your  company into the modern age.ou move your  company into the modern age.	2000-04-05
US	53074851	R23JZBRDNIDZ2M	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Life shouldn't be so hard!	Life shouldn't be this difficult! Lamott, through witty, humorous, clear, concise writing and compelling stories shows us how, in many ways, we are our own worst enemies. But she also shows us ways out of the problems we  create and gives us a glimpse of how our attitudes and perseverance can  overcome even the problems of alcoholism, drugs, being a single Mom, and  being poor.<br /> On the surface, this is a very self-centered book,  focused almost entirely on the feelings, friends, enemies, and weaknesses  of the author. Yet, Lamott manages to use her story to demonstrate to us  that through love and faith, one can overcome seemingly insurmountable  odds. If one reads these stories while keeping compassion in his or her  heart for another suffering human being, then a spiritual journey unfolds  with many wonderful lessons along the way. But it takes work to get by the  feeling that we're learning far more about the author than we needed to.<br />  Yet Traveling Mercies becomes a wonderful sermon since it afflicts the  comfortable and gives some hope and comfort to the afflicted. And perhaps  the discomfort one feels when reading it is the same as that of being  around sick family members or friends. And how can one tell the story of  love and compassion for others bringing grace into one's life without  sounding self-centered and a bit self-righteous? In the end, Lamott does  precisely that. The reader grows respect and admiration for this frail  human being as she tells of her own spiritual journey from someone who  could not stand being &quot;in the same room with a Christian,&quot; to  someone who can lean on God and accept Jesus. And she does so without  trashing anyone else's faith system.<br /> &quot;I make him [her son, go  to church] because I can. I outweigh him by nearly seventy-five pounds.  But that is only part of it. The main reason is that I want to give him  what I found in the world, which is to say a path and a little light to see  by. Most of the people I know who have what I want--which is to say,  purpose, heart, balance, gratitude, joy--are people with a deep sense of  spirituality. They are people in community, who pray, or practice their  faith; they are Buddhists, Jews, Christians--people banding together to  work on themselves and for human rights. They follow a brighter light than  the glimmer of their own candle; they are part of something  beautiful.&quot;<br /> I spoke of this book to a minister friend, and  recommended it as good reading. He in turn mentioned it to a friend who was  having difficulty with a wayward daughter. The daughter read Traveling  Mercies and reported back that it had changed her life. That she was able  to see how to get things back into control. Perhaps that is the only  recommendation this book needs. It changes peoples' lives for the better.the people I know who have what I want--which is to say,  purpose, heart, balance, gratitude, joy--are people with a deep sense of  spirituality. They are people in community, who pray, or practice their  faith; they are Buddhists, Jews, Christians--people banding together to  work on themselves and for human rights. They follow a brighter light than  the glimmer of their own candle; they are part of something  beautiful.&quot;<br /> I spoke of this book to a minister friend, and  recommended it as good reading. He in turn mentioned it to a friend who was  having difficulty with a wayward daughter. The daughter read Traveling  Mercies and reported back that it had changed her life. That she was able  to see how to get things back into control. Perhaps that is the only  recommendation this book needs. It changes peoples' lives for the better.	2000-03-05
US	53074851	R16N7WPKHJCSCY	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	4	24	25	N	N	The Eyes in the Trees	One is alternately frustrated, angry, and amused at the antics of the remarkably rigid evangelical Baptist missionary Nathan Price. His story, the story of the Congo, and his family's stories are told in turn by his  wife and daughters. In the end, Africa transforms not only the meager  possessions that the Price family brought to the Congo, but each of the  family members themselves.<br />Nathan and his unforgiving, uncompromising,  and uncomprehending brand of religion only survives as long as he does  because of the quiet compassion of the villagers in Kilanga. In the end, he  changes nothing of significance there and winds up being killed because of  his religion induced blindness. His life story is a clear warning for those  who in their smug self-righteousness do not allow for the fact that we  could all be wrong in our belief systems.<br />Orleanna Price, wife, mother,  and survivor. It is she who holds the family together as best she can and  shelters them from the tyrant father. She never does accept Africa as her  own, but cannot escape its influence. Through tragedy, she grows to  understand the mistaken attempts to save those poor souls in Africa, who in  then end need no outside saviors.<br />Rachel Price, is the oldest daughter  and self-centered teenage product of the relatively affluent America. Her  major concern is for her own looks and getting out of Africa to go back to  her parties and easy life. She too is a survivor. But, as luck would have  it, winds up staying in Africa and becoming a successful businesswoman. She  never does understand her younger twin sisters who are both more observant  and intellectually competent than Rachel will ever be.<br />Leah Price is the  &quot;normal&quot; twin, ever guilty for perhaps causing her sister to be  crippled, and ever on the watch to please father. Yet it is she who grows  independent enough to actually stand up to the tyrant. It is she who  becomes the tomboy and feminist of the Price women. It is she who comes to  love Africa and Anatole (her African husband and father of her children),  and it is she who chooses to stay and help the people in any way she  can.<br />Adah Price is Leah's crippled twin and, like Leah, intelligent  beyond her years. She suffers from hemiplegia, which seems to give her  special insight into the way things are. She takes comfort in her own  silence and uses her affliction to the best advantage. Adah is my favorite  character because of her clear understanding of her father, their plight,  the lives of the people of Kilanga, and where she fits in the world. Her  understanding is not perfect, but it grows in time as she observes more in  her own backward/forward way. Adah overcomes her hemiplegia and eventually  becomes a successful biomedical researcher.<br />Ruth May Price is the baby of  the family. She is a wonderful, prescient child who is the first to make  friends with the children of Kilanga. She is headstrong, persistent, and  constantly pushing the limits. In the end, it is she who suffers not only  from her own actions, but from the unforgiving Congo.<br />Thus the Price  family represents a cross-section of America in foreign affairs. Nathan is  the self-righteousness of a rich and successful people who cannot see the  virtues of a different culture and who recklessly impose unworkable  solutions to perceived problems. Orleanna is the compliant &quot;my country  right or wrong&quot; patriot of the masses who only rebels when it is  perhaps too late. Rachel is the spoiled middle-class caring only about  achieving and maintaining a comfortable life regardless of the world  consequences. Adah represents the best intentions of our technology to  bring relief to a suffering world, but still at arms length. Leah stands in  for those who, out of guilt and recognition of wrong doing, actually try to  bring about small steps on the path to progress that fit the culture of the  wronged. And Ruth May is like all those innocent children who are harmed  from neglect or misguided adults in pursuit of their selfish adult  goals.<br />And in the weaving of the Price family story, we learn a great  deal about the Congo's fight for independence from Belgium. As each of the  women tell their stories, in their own words, misspellings, and prejudices,  the characters of the other family members and friends becomes a bit more  complete, along with the story of the struggle of a people yearning to be  free from foreign rule. The journey matters, and Barbara Kingsolver takes  us on a compelling journey in The Poisonwood Bible. I enjoyed this book  even more on my second reading.ldren who are harmed  from neglect or misguided adults in pursuit of their selfish adult  goals.<br />And in the weaving of the Price family story, we learn a great  deal about the Congo's fight for independence from Belgium. As each of the  women tell their stories, in their own words, misspellings, and prejudices,  the characters of the other family members and friends becomes a bit more  complete, along with the story of the struggle of a people yearning to be  free from foreign rule. The journey matters, and Barbara Kingsolver takes  us on a compelling journey in The Poisonwood Bible. I enjoyed this book  even more on my second reading.	2000-02-20
US	53074851	R1MUTEZX2W6T9L	0875845851	889399178	The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail	Books	4	150	162	N	Y	Identifying the horns of the dilemma.	Prior to reading this book, I chalked up the misfortunes of the well run companies of our time to the vagaries of the market place and put them in the same shoulder shrugging category of &quot;bad things happen to good  people.&quot;  But now I have a new way of looking at success and failure  due to disruptive technology.  I better understand my own frustrations of  trying to do new things in a large corporation given the further insight  from Christensen that assets are really managed by customers, not our own  managers.  That is what makes this book scary.  There seems little hope  of any large corporation staying on top of disruptive technology unless  they follow the prescription of segregating those innovations from the  usual corporate overhead structure. That means spinning off groups, taking  equity positions in start-up firms, and/or completely funding start-ups to  grow the new markets.  The writing is clear, the data gathered is  thorough and fully documented with ample notes, the logic is concise, and  the conclusions are entirely logical. Christensen gives us formulas for  success including agnostic marketing to help us recognize emerging markets.  The case studies are at once interesting and compelling. This is a must  read for managers in any industry. Dr. Andrew S. Grove, Chairman and CEO of  Intel Corporation had this to say, &quot;This book addresses a tough  problem that most successful companies will face eventually. It's lucid,  analytical-and scary.&quot;	2000-01-30
US	53074851	RSZRS5JTLSZ41	1573220256	842182403	Ethics for the New Millennium	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Compassion is all we need	Ethics for the New Millennium calls for a conscious revolution in order to bring about world peace. The Dalai Lama's wonderful optimism shines forth as he paints a picture of civilization of compassion and true love for our  fellow humans.  But this is not a hollow sermon with only the hope of  peace held out in front of us. It is instead a prescription for beginning  the long journey toward converting ourselves to fuller, happier human  beings. Through personal stories and experiences the Dalai Lama shows us  the way to re-think our position in the world.  Despite protestations  to the contrary though, the Buddhist philosophy and teaching is pervasive  throughout. Yet there is never a lack of respect for other spiritual paths.  A path is set before us with definitions for Ethics of: Restraint, Virtue,  Compassion, and Suffering. We are given a clear understanding of the role  ethics plays in society. World religions are taken to task for providing  yet another reason for propagating hate and/or separating ourselves from  others. We are also left with an appeal for - &quot;Love for others and  respect for their rights and dignity, no matter who or what they are:  ultimately these are all we need.&quot;	2000-01-30
US	53074851	R128Z5KP7KWPDS	1573227218	290811427	Amazing Grace: A Vocabulary of Faith	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Reclaiming our vocabulary of faith.	I am so grateful that I found and read this book of outstanding courage. Kathleen takes the thoughtful reader through a wonderful exercise of reclaiming what for her was a lost vocabulary of faith. Much of what she  had to say about the Christian words I grew up with has been echoed in my  own life, and while I have not gone back to my roots, I do feel much more  comfortable with the old language after having read her book.<br />Bringing  the words of faith to life in our everyday living is certainly a struggle  for most of us. Kathleen shows us some of the ways her own struggles lead  her to at least temporary states of grace. This interesting and useful  approach to defining her own theology was lively, engaging, and compelling  in the sense that she faces her many shortcomings, celebrates her  successes, and continually strives for meaning in her life.<br />Personally, I  find today's organized religion lacking any real meaning. But Kathleen has  shown me how I can at least reclaim some of the vocabulary of faith that I  had long ago thrown out with the other religious baggage of my early years.<br />Thank you Kathleen.	2000-01-19
US	53074851	RB960UU40TRA4	0471317004	339212118	A Walk Through Time: From Stardust to Us--The Evolution of Life on Earth	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	The interconnected web of existence	A Walk Through Time - From Stardust to Us - The evolution of Life on Earth.<br />A Walk Through Time (AWTT) is an incredibly well done book, from all aspects. The artwork and printing make it suitable for display and the  content challenges us to re-think our position in the world and the  decisions we are making.<br />The explanation of evolution is both plausible  and understandable to the lay person. Yet the mystery of life is not  diminished or hidden, so there is more than enough room for those who  understand our existence through their love of God.<br />Beginning more than  5,000 MYA (5,000 Million Years Ago, or 5 Billion Years Ago) we are told,  the &quot;universe did indeed begin in an explosion of energy powerful  enough to send all matter flying apart for billions of years into the  future.&quot; From that starting point, AWTT traces with considerable  detail the evolution of our living earth of which we are a part. And  everywhere the mystery of &quot;the life force&quot; is to be found.<br />One  can read the prose or follow the exhibition text along the bottom of the  pages, or take in both to re-enforce what is being explained. Sidney Liebes  managed to convince HP of the merits of creating a 1mile &quot;walk through  time.&quot; That project is staffed by volunteers and has been presented in  a dozen venues in three countries. The &quot;exhibition text&quot;  mentioned above is from that project.<br />The final paragraph of the book  summarizes the challenge for our existence in this totally interconnected  web of life. &quot;Is it possible that a sense of awe, wonder and humility,  of origins, place, possibilities, and recovery of a belief in the  sacredness of nature, can, and perhaps must, become operational imperatives  in guiding humanity into the future? Rather than pondering the illusive  purpose of life, can we not accept and appreciate the gift, live the life  we are given, respect all life, and preserve options for the future. Though  none of us has the power to control the future, each of us is free to  determine how we will contribute to the circumstance out of which the  future will evolve.&quot;<br />Perhaps the purpose of life is simply to ensure  that life continues. Then there is much in this book to set us on the right  path.ne of us has the power to control the future, each of us is free to  determine how we will contribute to the circumstance out of which the  future will evolve.&quot;<br />Perhaps the purpose of life is simply to ensure  that life continues. Then there is much in this book to set us on the right  path.	2000-01-19
US	53074851	R25ZVIM916FPK2	0060653477	17476479	Finding Your Religion: When the Faith You Grew Up With Has Lost Its Meaning	Books	4	60	63	N	N	Climbing the Spiritual Mountain	I had the honor of meeting Scotty (as he prefers to be called) at one of his now famous Chaplain's Table meetings. I was there at the invitation of my daughter to participate in a discussion on relationships. In particular,  our father daughter relationship was to be the topic. So I did get to spend  a few minutes with Scotty and watch his interaction with the students and  faculty members at the table. He is as compassionate, sincere, and full of  fun as his book leads us to believe he is.  Finding Your Religion is an  invaluable resource and a must read for those folks wanting to put more  life into his or her spiritual practice as well as for those wanting to  branch out and search for a new spiritual path.  This well written, easy to  read manual on why it's okay to question our childhood religion does not  let us off the accountability hook. We are still challenged to live our  chosen religion, whatever it may be. There are no simple platitudes or easy  ways out for us. Scotty reminds us over and over to live our religion  everyday and to be the best we can be, whether that is Jewish, Christian,  Bahai, Buddhist, Islamic, Hindu, or Unitarian Universalist.  By  relating his own story as well as real stories about real people that he  has met in his travels, Scotty brings the struggles along our spiritual  paths to life. We know we aren't alone in our searching, and we come to  understand that it's the journey that counts. We also learn that there are  many different spiritual paths we can take, but they all have the same goal  - a fuller, richer life for the practitioner.  The respect Scotty  demonstrates for each individual and each religious path is an attribute  all too rare in our world today. There is more than toleration shown here.  Scotty shows us the way to truly loving our fellow travelers, regardless of  the path they or we choose to get to the top of our spiritual mountain.  After reading this book, one should be much more comfortable with being on  a personal spiritual quest. But it is also a call to action. Finding Your  Religion is a call to really get out there and just do it!a personal spiritual quest. But it is also a call to action. Finding Your  Religion is a call to really get out there and just do it!	2000-01-11
US	53074851	R3A11W03XIH5OI	0694520217	518881084	Meetings with the Archangel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Superbly challenging yet entertaining introduction to Zen.	Having read numerous books on eastern philosopy, I was only mildly interested in yet another. However, Stephen Mitchell was appearing at a book-signing at the Harvard Coop Bookstore, and I simply could not pass it  up. Accompanied by my daughter, we went, purchased the book and listened to  Mr. Mitchell read portions from it. What a find! I have read Meetings with  the Archangel twice and will read it again, I'm sure. Watching the  development of the narrator as he progresses through several stages of  spiritual enlightment was fascinating. The challenge, of course, is to  launch yourself on such a mission. The story is entirely entertaining and  one not to be put down once started. I suspect there is a great deal of Mr.  Mitchell in this book, and it is especially wonderful to have a memory of  his own voice reading selections from this excellent work of fiction. Well  worth your time. Enjoy.	1999-01-04
