US	53079398	R36Q281WK0CFOM	0440237025	170822767	Journey	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Disappointing Steel effort	I will admit I'm somewhat of a closet Steel fan. I've liked some of her earlier works, but I'm sorry to say this is not one of her better books. Steel has a very bad habit of telling instead of showing, and it's very evident here.<br />The story's premise showed promise: a popular news anchor (Maddy Hunter) reflects on a bad marriage her current husband helped her escape, and slowly she realizes that her current marriage is also abusive. Though her husband doesn't beat her, he controls her through his position as her boss and belittles her every chance he gets, treating her like dirt. Maddy is in denial for much of the book, yet manages to screw up her courage for the predictable Steel ending. Of course, there is an understanding male friend, suffering his own demons, who eventually becomes Maddy's touchstone and lover and helps her escape.<br />Steel glosses over some scenes which would have been more interesting had she written them as they happened - like Maddy's encounters with the abuse counselor. The constant POV switching and repetitive exposition was also a headache - Steel tends to explain things she had told us in earlier chapters as if she had never written about them before. Maddy's history of abortion is a good example. Overall, this was just disappointing.	2003-04-14
US	53079398	R29YX5YABY4UHD	1403326169	634693311	Blood in My Hairspray	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Mystery is stylish	Damian Shtup owns and operates the most faaaabulous hair salon in the City, catering in particular to the wives of \\"respected legitmate businessmen\\" - women who enjoy having their hair teased and touched-up as much as they enjoy the banter between stylists. Damian's follicle-enhanced creations are enough to leave the ladies of the B-52's fuming with envy, though as Damian narrates in Blood in My Hairspray, not everyone is pleased. <br />The usual crowd at the Shtup Stop is horrified when a regular customer drops dead in the salon for no apparent reason; Damian, while shocked, seems to be more distraught over the bloodstains on his pristine floor, but that's to be expected in the Damian-centric universe, where his word is law and where some people aren't even allowed to lose their ethnicity (just ask the Girl from Canada). The event is nearly pushed out of the stylist's mind until a chance encounter with a tainted can of hairspray leaves Damian seeing red, literally. Suddenly Damian's attitiude towards expiring customers is not so pithy anymore, not when the possibility of murder looms among his name-brand line of hair care products. Not when there is the possibility that he, too, is a target. Not when there is the possibility of making time with the hunky officer assigned to his case. <br />Blood in My Hairspray reads as a hybrid thriller/memoir - though heavier on the humor than the thriller - as narrated by hair care king (or rather queen?) Shtup. Actually, \\"narrated\\" is too mild a term to apply here; Shtup assaults the readers with full force. He doesn't just chew the scenery, he thrusts it into a blender set to liquify and serves it to everyone as smoothies. Hairspray is his story from beginning to end, told as only he can tell it; should the story stray a bit into a pained soliloquy about the trials of running a salon or a dreaded visit from the parental units, then so what? Shtup's energy is infectious, and one has to wonder if author Schreibman had difficultyat times keeping the character corralled. In this case, however, it's not necessarily a bad thing. Let's hope Shtup's salon chairs have seatbelts, Hairspray is a wild ride.	2003-01-16
US	53079398	R3THN9JHP4DPMP	0973137800	466988217	The Passionate Steward: Recovering Christian Stewardship from Secular Fundraising	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Timely Book for Parishes of All Sizes	In the Passionate Steward, Michael O'Hurley-Pitts delivers a succinct guide to parish stewardship, applicable to Catholic and Protestant denominations, which brings to focus to where it should have been all along - giving as a vocation and not a transaction. Giving of time and money to one's church, the author argues, should not have to be provoked by offers of trinkets and goodies. This book offers definitions of stewardship and suggestions for parishes on how to improve giving without having to resort to means which stray from the Gospel message.	2002-10-16
US	53079398	R3O3KJJYEMG1YJ	0971437009	925586189	The Night the Penningtons Vanished	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A delightful mystery for young adult readers	Money is a difficult thing to come by in the tiny western Massachusetts town of Floral Manor. Young Isabella Ripa yearns to be able to buy sweets and other things her impossible older sister Anna won't take away, yet her job at Aunt Tallulah's antique gift shop yields an almost nonexistent salary. Tallulah, herself strapped for cash, hopes a few smart purchases from an upcoming estate sale will yield profitable sales, and in turn save the business. <br />Salvation, by Isabella's perception, seems to come in the form of a young woman looking to sell a birdcage and a pair of lovebirds named Mr. and Mrs. Pennington through the shop. A sale would bring in some money, Isabella concedes, but before she can tell her aunt the cage is stolen from the shop, Penningtons and all. What's more, the original owner of the birds is soon found murdered in her hotel. <br />Sparred on by friends, Isabella reluctantly launches her own investigation, leading her to collect clues through encounters with the homeless and a nightmarish retreat weekend in an allegedly haunted abbey. It isn't long, however, before Isabella's worries switch from building a bank account to preserving her life. <br />Reading THE NIGHT THE PENNINGTONS VANISHED brought back memories for me, of how much I looked forward to getting my next Nancy Drew mystery and plowing through the pages. Heusler's debut mystery for young adults is a delight to read, a story that doesn't talk down to its intended audience. In teenager Isabella there is a real person with whom young girls can identify, she is a girl dealing with typical pressures - money woes, weight issues, sibling problems - on top of a mystery. <br />She is not the perfect titian-haired Nancy Drew and she does not have to be. We root for her when she counters sister Anna's abuse by charging her money to borrow things, and we applaud her reasoning when friend Vicki suggests a get rich quick scheme. More than that, we want to turn the pages of Heusler's novel to seewhat happens next. Heusler would be wise to continue this setting as a series.	2002-09-24
US	53079398	R34L6ZWI7TRWQC	0971400415	943471485	Love Thy Sister	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Thought-out story, good characters, good book	Of all things American, the work ethic is most lost on young Mina, a transplant from Italy sent to live with her older sister, Paola, in California. Why Paola continues to pour her heart and soul into a software business that lately seems to yield only pain and frustration is baffling to Mina. Paola's philandering husband and work partner is not shy about his womanizing, employees are hardly loyal, and inventory is disappearing. It is no wonder Mina prefers a sedentary life, free to dream of a handsome, far-away Frenchman who writes words of love on lavender stationery. <br />The mysterious death of an employee at Paola's business does little to diffuse tempers at home and at work, and Mina is less than amused when talk of poison, intent, and murder implies Paola as a prime suspect. Though no accusations are made directly, Mina is sparred into action to aid Detective Di Fiore and Paola's personal investigator, Brian Starrs, in confirming Paola's innocence in any wrongdoing. ... <br />With Love Thy Sister, author Swan gives mystery lovers a story that will not disappoint. Injected with a touch a romance and moments of levity that do not dampen the tension of the mystery, Sister is well-written, dramatic, and a treat to read. Swan creates in Mina a somewhat spoiled but likeable heroine, a well-rounded gem in a cast of amusing stock characters (the sleazeball husband, the man-hungry receptionist, etc.) Swan is one author for mystery fans to watch in the future.	2002-09-23
US	53079398	R2E16FCP7N94YD	1589821017	984028113	The View from the Grass Roots	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Readers will enjoy this view	Picture Erma Bombeck and George Will having a child who grew up, moved to New Jersey, and got a dog named Chewbacca. This is probably the best way one could describe Gregory J. Rummo.<br />Readers in the New Jersey area will know Rummo from his many years as a regular contributor to regional newspapers, where his work tackles a variety of topics, personal and political. The Amy Foundation, an organization dedicated to promoting Christian-influenced journalism in secular newspapers and magazines, has seen fit to bestow a number of awards on Rummo's work. Some of these pieces are featured in The View From the Grass Roots, a collection of ten-plus years of opinions on the Clinton administration, profiles in courage, and timely observations of the country and government in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. <br />The book's title, Rummo explains in the introduction, is meant to emphasize Rummo's position as a writer. He does not proclaim to be an expert on the topics about which he writes, but rather he calls shots as he sees them -- as an ordinary husband, father, Christian, and American citizen observing life. To call Rummo &quot;ordinary&quot; would be a misnomer, however. A perfunctory glance at the contents of View presents the reader with a look into a life both blessed and challenged, a life appreciative of God's creations - everything from the rough beauty of rural New Jersey to the child growing in a mother's womb. Rummo's style is common sense and easy on the eye; a column on the logistics of coaching his son's soccer team may illicit a few chuckles while at the same time warm a reader's heart as Rummo explains how his son refuses to let his deafness become an obstacle while playing. His thoughts on past and present Presidential administrations may, depending on one's political leanings, leave a reader nodding in agreement or shaking his head.<br />Whatever your view on religion, the government, and life in general, it is well worth the time to see these things from Rummo's point of View.	2002-09-06
US	53079398	RSXREDVORKPN7	0451205561	588710465	The Chocolate Cat Caper (Chocoholic Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Impressive new series	I may have been that my inner Lady Godiva was offering some unconscious input when I bought this title. I do love chocolate!<br />Carl (a pseudonym for author Eve K. Sandstrom) has created in this debut series a charming Michigan town where everybody takes turns being mayor, talks like the people in Fargo, and loves chocolate. Only these people don't settle for foil-wrapped kisses - Aunt Nettie TenHuis has the corner on the sweets market here. She makes the goodies while her niece, former trophy wife Lee McKinney, handles the books. <br />Caper opens with a delicious delivery that turns soon turns deadly. When high-powered attorney Clementine Ripley (think F. Lee Bailey in heels) falls dead after biting into one of Aunt Nettie's concoctions, Lee decides to sleuth on her own to find out who framed the family business by spiking the candy with an extra, unwanted ingredient. Finding the culprit, she discovers, is not easy, even in a small town. The residents do like each other, yes, and they also agree upon one thing: Clementine deserved her just desserts. <br />For a light and at-times humorous read, The Chocolate Cat Caper delivers; this promises to be an entertaining series, one that needs not wait until after dinner to enjoy. Lee McKinney is, contrary to her ex-husband's beliefs, a capable and bright woman, even if her tongue does get a bit tied (you'll see).	2002-06-24
US	53079398	R3EROX383760BC	0738867306	153461031	Change of Heart	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Well-written thriller	Could Communism regain a stronghold on the former Soviet Union? Can one create a completely undetectable explosive for the purpose of increasing terrorism? Anything is possible in the realm of suspense fiction, and if this is case then surely such evil can be prevented. First-time author Jack Allen poses this theory in CHANGE OF HEART. <br />Joshua McGowan is a problem solver, a Naval intelligence officer whose methods of bringing criminals to justice tend to cause more headaches than relief within the government. Despite his brusque (and at times explosive) manner, McGowan is pegged with what appears to be a simple assignment: escort one Valeria Konstantinova to the United States for a debriefing; Valeria has information the CIA needs, information that could prevent a new Cold War. <br />It sounds like a simple assignment on paper, but McGowan quickly comes to find that acting as an international courier is not without the occasional hiccup. This is true if the \\"package\\" is more interested in getting her own way, and especially true if somebody wants to use the \\"package\\" to further the Communist cause, and kill a certain meddling Naval intelligence officer in the process. <br />CHANGE OF HEART is an entertaining, high-charged story. Author Allen will prove to be a worthy competitor with the Tom Clancys and Robert Ludlums of this word. He has created in Joshua McGowan a well-worn yet endearing hero - think James Bond without the fancy car and high-tech gadgetry - who is just as capable of charming a lady as he is serving his country. CHANGE OF HEART is billed as the first of McGowan's adventures, and it is certain he will find many fans in the future.	2002-06-05
US	53079398	R38331CIVCNYIV	1575666774	657339293	Once Bitten: A Melanie Travis Mystery (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Is Melanie going to the dogs?	If you read the previous Melanie Travis mystery, Unleashed, and you are like me, you were likely disappointed to see Melanie's fiance Sam take off for an undetermined time following his ex-wife's murder for reflection and what-not. Berenson, however, appeases us in Once Bitten by fulfilling the promise of a wedding -- that of Melanie's brother Frank.<br />While she is happy to see her brother maturing into a responsible businessman and committing himself to dog trainer/knockout Bertie Kennedy, Melanie is still nursing the wounds of her breakup. When Bertie's flighty wedding planner, part-time trainer Sara, mysteriously disappears, Melanie finds there is no time left to cry over spilt engagements when Bertie pleads with her to find Sara...and help plan a wedding while she's doing that.<br />Berenson injects quite a dose of romance in this installment when in the midst of all this chaos, ex-husband Bob returns to town, clearly bitten by the reconciliation bug. I have to admit, Melanie's divided loyalties between maintaining a stable home life for son Davey (who is ecstatic to have his father so close) and yearning for her missing true love made for better suspense than the actual mystery, the disappearance and even more bizarre reappearance of Sara, a character I came to like less and less as the story progressed.<br />I have enjoyed the Melanie Travis series since its inception, but with Once Bitten I fear Berenson may be hitting her stride. However, the weaknesses detected in the actual mystery (the aforementioned Sara and her conflicts with her even less likable parents...Melanie herself admits she can't stand them) are bolstered by the compelling subplot. I certainly hope for the next book the mystery will be a bit meatier (no pun intended).	2001-11-16
US	53079398	R1W1Y7GBMYC0BK	0967149215	295982379	A Philadelphia Catholic in King Jamess Court	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Well-written coming-of-age story	Michael O'Shea is surviving a bittersweet summer; the untimely death of his father has sent him spiraling into a grief that only prayer seems to quell, and at the behest of his maternal uncle his family is urged to leave the familiarity and comfort of their Philadelphia home to heal in rural Kentucky. There the only comfort is found in the welcoming smiles and hospitality of strangers, as Michael learns his mother's brother's family are staunch &quot;Bible-believing&quot; folk who choose to live as &quot;plain&quot; people. Socializing among the Amish of that region, Michael's extended family's existence is founded upon a lack of material wants and needs and an abundance of faith.<BR> <BR>Gradually Michael and his family come to relax and enjoy the company of their relatives. Creature comforts fade into memory, for playing a game of baseball and tucking into homemade ice cream on the front porch appears to yield more enjoyment than a night in front of the television. However, Michael senses something amiss, particularly every time his uncle brings up issues of faith and challenges the boy to validate his own beliefs. As if dealing with the death of his father was not enough to bear, Michael soon realizes his uncle's ulterior motive for bringing his family to Kentucky -- to persuade Michael's mother of the error she made in converting to Catholicism by first converting her children to his beliefs. Michael, a lukewarm student of his own Catholic faith, is suddenly shocked to hear people dismiss the Catholic Church as &quot;pagan&quot; and &quot;unChristian.&quot;<BR> <BR>Explanations outside of actual Bible quotes (KJV version, mind you) fall upon deaf ears, and Michael is self-propelled into a crash course in apologetics, with only the Bible and the prayers of his mother to sustain him. As Michael prepares to successfully defend the Faith against the local nay-sayers, many of whom know much of the Bible by heart, his confidence grows, and it is his knowledge of the faith through God's Word which helps establish an atmosphere of tolerance which some in this tight-knit community are more willing to embrace than others. <BR> <BR>Like the works of Bud MacFarlane, Jr., Kennedy's &quot;Philadelphia Catholic&quot; is a teaching novel, an apologetics tool in the guise of an engaging coming-of-age story. Kennedy's eye for detail is evident in his descriptions of Amish country and portrayals of life among the &quot;plain&quot; people, and Michael's dialogue and evangelization is well woven into Kennedy's prose. Kennedy delivers the facts of the faith without making it sound as if the &quot;Philadelphia Catholic&quot; is regurgitating lines from a textbook; the reader should not feel as if he/she is being lectured,  and considering the tense climactic scene where Michael faces his challengers as a witness standing trial, Kennedy should be commended for a plausible conclusion to the story. With &quot;Philadelphia Catholic&quot; Kennedy leaves us to decide the validity of the Catholic faith, and through Michael O'Shea he offers convincing arguments bracketed by a touching story.	2001-11-16
US	53079398	R3QPWJ7X8AIP2S	0595191029	9938387	White Death	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Don't go in the water!	The water along the Georgia Coast is thickening with the blood of beachgoers, leaving many businesspeople distraught not only at the threat to their safety but the threat of a poor tourist season. Locals theorize that changes in the environmental climate have attracted a great white to the sleepy hamlet's shores, thereby unleashing a summer of white death. <br />While shark fisherman Luke Brock is concerned for the townspeople's safety, his focus shifts from helping to catch the beast to helping rescue the woman he loves from another white death. As a result, he is a constant target for scornful Mabel's venom, barbs he refuses to take seriously since he is certain the drugs are talking for her. That the local law enforcement is slow to bust the drug chain is baffling at first, until one realizes that certain local businessman are not at all bothered when the t-shirts and souvenir keychains move slower than their real &quot;inventory.&quot; <br />White Death is a tense debut thriller, peppered with more than one mystery. Burch, whose authority on sharks and shark fishing has been bolstered by numerous appearances on radio and TV in the North Florida area, employs a present-tense style to the story, creating a suspenseful immediacy which highlights the action, especially during his graphic scenes of the shark attacking its prey. In Luke he has created a mysterious hero, a man who desires a love he cannot have (Mabel), yet refuses what likely could be a more healthy, albeit long-distance, relationship. Despite the motley assortment of yokel fisherman and spaced-out teenagers, Luke quietly keeps his calm and his focus -- to obliterate white death in all its forms. <br />Burch writes with an air of accuracy, able to instill a sense of discomfort in anyone daring to test the ocean. I found it somewhat of a bizarre coincidence that White Death was released late this summer in the wake of shark attacks off the East Coast. This is a story that may cause you to rethink that vacation at the beach.	2001-11-13
US	53079398	R2JAQ0WGMDFAK7	0759646872	653167411	Secret Ties	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting storyline, with some distractions	Should there come a time when a vacancy opens for Wonder Woman's job, Geneva Douglas ought to submit her resume. Not only does she operate the West Coast office of an elite government security agency, but she owns and operates a tony Los Angeles hotel, home this year to the biggest and most popular post-OSCAR® party in town. Somewhere during this tight work schedule she has managed to hone expert skills in racecar driving and martial arts.<br />Living a life of glamour and adventure is not without its problems, however, and in Secret Ties just about everything that could go wrong for Geneva does -- practically all at once. On the upside, Geneva meets a girl named Tyler Kane, a girl she believes may be the long-lost daughter of a murdered friend. Geneva's joy with finally being able to fulfill a promise to this deceased friend is short-lived, however, when various forces seek to end the reunion, and Geneva's life.<br />Tyler's foster parents want to regain custody of the girl and adopt her, despite the fact that neither seem to have any loving interest in her. Ryan Walsh, a grieving widower with a seedy past and present, seeks deadly revenge on Geneva's security agency, while one of his henchmen takes a curious interest in Geneva's new charge. A woman's work is never done, it seems, as Geneva struggles to maintain calm and order in her life, and in LA.<br />With her first foray into fiction, author Graves presents an ambitious, and at times over-the-top, story of suspense. Geneva's interactions with Tyler are good and show softer facets to this &quot;superwoman&quot; character. My only quarrel with Secret Ties is the overuse of characterization. While Graves has created a fascinating cast to interact with Geneva, I fear some descriptions and character histories presented in the many pockets of exposition throughout the book may distract some from the action, which is the heart of this novel.	2001-11-08
US	53079398	R2O2OD2VKBOYGN	0451201205	865137997	The Secret Adversary (Tommy and Tuppence)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;T N T&quot;!	Wearily ensconced in a London hotel, a pre-married Tommy and Tuppence ponder their future after the war, most specifically how to earn an income with minimal skills and desire for heavy labor. A chance encounter with an eavesdropper promises a mysterious yet intriguing task, but quickly falls through when an uncomfortable Tuppence gives a false name to her would-be employer (Jane Finn, a name dropped by two passing gentlemen when Tommy himself was eavesdropping on conversations) and is accused of blackmail.<br />Money no longer a concern, The Young Adventurers, LTD., as Tommy and Tuppence have christened themselves, decide to sleuth to satisfy their own curiosity about the nondescript Jane Finn and why the girl is suddenly so popular. Soon they are employed for real, charged by Jane's millionaire Americn cousin to find the girl, missing since her rescue from the sinking Lusitania, and implored by one Mr. Carter to retrieve documents believed to have been on Miss Finn's person at the time, documents that could threaten the entire security of Britian and threaten the validity of post-war treaties. When a potential witness is murdered before she can offer any helpful information with regards to Jane and &quot;Mr. Brown,&quot; the ringleader of the organization behind the threats, The Young Adventurers find enough adventure for two lifetimes.<br />In Secret Adversary, Christie offers perhaps one of her most complex mysteries -- a forerunner to the contemporary political thriller. The combination of Tommy's deductive intellect and Tuppence's wit and zeal are compelling to read, yet sadly addictive. Given the dearth of stories featuring these two, one may be left to wonder about the large gaps in between the Tommy and Tuppence novels and what adventures may have happened in the interim. For any mystery fan, however, Secret Adversary is a must read, a story that despite its setting will always be ageless.	2001-11-08
US	53079398	R33NI7ELV2T5C7	0759550328	652193115	Spittin' Image	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Double your fun!	Everybody has a double, so the saying goes. When Samantha Smith discovers hers in the form of Jayne Roberts at Chicago's O'Hare Airport, she sees more than an mirror image, she sees opportunity. Dreading her connector flight to Los Angeles and an eventual meeting with a divorce lawyer, Samantha proposes to Jayne a plan to switch places. Jayne will fly to Los Angeles and sign Samantha's divorce papers, a simple task considering the ex-husband to be is in absentia, and Samantha will take on the responsibility of sorting through Jayne's grandmother's enormous house full of belongings before &quot;Grandnanny&quot; is shipped off to a nursing home. <br />A simple plan, Samantha reasons...what could go wrong? The possibilities are endless, particularly when Samantha - posing as Jayne - takes more than a sisterly interest in Jayne's half-brother, and Jayne discovers Samantha's husband...in Samantha's bed. These aren't the only factors complicating their given tasks, for it appears somebody is out to cause some bodily harm. Question is, why, and which twin is the target?<br />Spittin' Image, the first installment of Brownley and Duran's Doubletake Series, is a wild and amusing tale ala The Prince and the Pauper. Wise-cracking Samantha is practically the polar opposite of Presidential trivia expert Jayne, and therefore a good complement to her character as far as the story is concerned. Thrown together by chance, the two bicker like sisters as their respective predicaments escalate into danger, drawing the reader into an adventure that is definitely one of a kind.	2001-11-08
US	53079398	R1168OABEZL2MT	1582005060	837370759	Bagels for Tea [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fanny Zindel is wonderful!	When it comes to family and the B'nai Brith Northside Senior's Tennis Championship, Fanny Zindel is a fierce protector. With a spirit that belies her age, Fanny is also a keen observer of relationships and situations gone awry. When she leaves the States to represent her Jewish community at an interfaith conference in England and finds that her granddaughter has been wrongfully expelled from her snobbish private school, Fanny is there to defend the family honor.<br />Things should go so smoothly, right? When the young woman who accused Fanny's granddaughter, Susan, of wrongdoing is found dead, Fanny must do more than defend honor. She is compelled to sleuth on her own to keep Susan from prison. Between clashes with her sometime companion, Nathan, and the estranged husband of her conference roommate, it is clear Fanny's job will not be simple. There doesn't seem to be anything in her bottomless &quot;everything bag&quot; (where Fanny stores absolutely everything) to help remedy the situation.<br />Once available in print, Hard Shell Word Factory has re-released Bagels For Tea in e-book format, thereby doing a wonderful service for mystery readers. Fanny Zindel is a sharp, endearingly acerbic sleuth with an appetite for justice as great as her appetite for a good bagel.	2001-10-18
US	53079398	R2Q7COP1VGA0BE	1929925190	387775394	In St. Patrick's Custody	Books	3	0	0	N	N	First in series big on characterization	Widowed Grace Johnson is content to spend her golden years feeding the birds in Central Park and pursuing a friendship with retired policeman Patrick O'Mally, though in the back of her mind there is always a sense of emptiness and a yearning for self-worth. Her children want to banish her to a rest home, themselves content with satisfying obligations at holidays and weddings. As out of touch as the Johnson brood is with their mother, they are more than surprised when Grace takes drastic measures to preserve her freedom -- namely running away from home to a homeless shelter. <br />It is at the shelter where Grace's life is renewed, with new friends, a new job, and growing self-confidence which comes from doing the Lord's work, as Grace might say. When a prized statue of St. Patrick is stolen for her home church and its pastor poisoned, a sense of adventure is sparked in Grace, not to mention curiosity, particularly every time would-be suitor Patrick tenses at the mention of a possible suspect. She comes to find that still waters -- and danger -- do run deep. <br />Janet Elaine Smith has created an endearing amateur sleuth in Grace Johnson, who sharpens with charm as the story progresses. As far as mystery goes, the storyline is a bit thin, and the abrupt disappearance of Grace's children in the first third of the book was a slight disappointment. I would like to have seen more development in that particular sub-plot, as Grace's interaction with other characters in In St. Patrick's Custody is certainly a strong element in this novel.	2001-10-17
US	53079398	R2RN6UKKNVMFCG	097039960X	718828705	The Suffering Servant's Courage	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A relevant book for a prayerful life	I'm writing this review on October 1, 2001. Given that October is the month of the Most Holy Rosary, and considering the attacks which occurred last month in New York, Washington DC and Pennsylvania, it is appropriate to review Christine Haapala's book, The Suffering Servant's Courage now because prayer is needed now more than ever. Haapala's book is a collection of Scriptural prayers designed as meditations for the Rosary prayer, and is for, as the publisher emphasizes, &quot;everyone who wants to pray and unite their sufferings with the sufferings of Christ.&quot;<br />Accompanied by vivid and at times heart-rendering illustrations depicting the fifteen mysteries of the Rosary by 19th century artist Gustave Doré, The Suffering Servant's Courage offers to complement the Rosary with the comforting Word that reminds us of how Christ suffered for us and how we should lay our own sufferings at His feet. The Suffering Servant's Courage is a book one should refer to during such times of spiritual need, no matter how great the suffering.	2001-10-01
US	53079398	RQW40BE6YQLPC	0911218319	359136210	My Treasury of Chaplets	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great resource for Catholic prayers and devotions	Naturally when one asks what books a Catholic should keep at home, the Bible and the Catechism come immediately to mind. My Treasury of Chaplets should definitely be listed in the top ten.<br />Here is this small, thick book will you find compiled just about every Catholic bead prayer recorded; lukewarm Catholics and those interested in the Faith may be surprised to discover that our wealthy tradition of prayer transcends beyond the Rosary; Quintiliani has collected here rosaries and chaplets representing many Catholic devotions, from the Divine Mercy to the Little Flower rosary to devotions for the Holy Wounds, Holy Face, and Precious Blood of Jesus.<br />Of course, there is a section devoted to the Holy Rosary, and in addition to information on the traditional Dominican five-decade devotion one will also find prayers for the Pro-Life Rosary, the World Mission rosary, and other devotions which may be prayed using traditional rosary beads.<br />If you want to enrich your life with prayer, let My Treasury of Chaplet be your guide.	2001-08-21
US	53079398	RM50RKPUVAVL5	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	3	4	4	N	N	One of King's better efforts	I enjoyed this story about an extraordinary young girl born of parents with odd telekenetic powers. King's style is in good form here and the trademark elements of his writing are evident: the compelling, deep characterization and the way he can inspire a sense of horror without having to write endless pages of gore.	2001-08-20
US	53079398	RKBFAOA8SNAGK	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Disappointing effort to an otherwise good series	...Now on to the review:<br />Kinsey Millhone is still stuck in the 1980s, living in Henry's garage and driving that beat-up Volkswagen POS, poisoning herself with Quarter Pounders with Cheese when she's not letting Rosie do it for her with her own unique brand of ethnic cuisine. The extended family Kinsey acquired a few letters ago isn't around this time to bother her (a good thing, since they got on my nerves), however in P is for Peril we're met via Kinsey with a new montage of characters guaranteed to grate one's nerves. A well-to-do doctor/administrator for a local nursing home goes missing, and Kinsey is hired by the man's first wife to determine whether or not his disappearance was of his own volition. Reluctuant to follow what she thinks is a cold trail (the guy's been gone for weeks, no witnesses), she grudgingly accepts anyway, knowing she'll hate herself later. Of course, we know if Kinsey says no there is no story, and it could be debated as to whether or not the reader hates Kinsey for saying yes.<br />Peril offers little in the way of action as far as the mystery is concerned; the reader is treated instead to Kinsey describing in detail the backbiting animosity between the doctor's ex-wife and current wife, current wife's daughter from a previous relationship, doctor's harried employees and partners, etc. A subplot featuring Kinsey being stalked by a would-be landlord who may or may not have killed his parents is brought in obviously to pad the thin primary plot, which throbs like the headache we're sure Kinsey endured throughout this case.<br />Peril is not badly written, nor is it a bad book. It is clearly not the best of the series; as a Grafton fan I had hoped to see Kinsey improve with age and tackle further cases with as much sardonic verve as she had in earlier outings. Recent titles like this (N is for Noose comes to mind) are disheartening to read, yet Kinsey is an endearing character, and hopefully when Q is for Quarry comes out she will be back to her old self.	2001-08-20
US	53079398	R14FVJC8JIGKAQ	0679407049	831786578	You Can't Put No Boogie Woogie on the King of Rock and Roll	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hilarious hodgepodge	Boogie Woogie represents a collection of some of Lewis's best  and funniest humor columns of the early 90s. Lewis could take any mundane topic like grits or buying underwear funny and make a funny topic like zits or mooning even more hilarious.	2001-08-20
US	53079398	R3A7GQW92H7ENF	0345419278	171795156	If I Ever Get Back to Georgia, I'm Gonna Nail My Feet to the Ground	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of Lewis's best	IMO, this is one of Lewis's best works. It is not a collection of columns as many of his books were, but an autobiographical account of his career as a journalist, spanning from his days at the University of Georgia and working for the Athens newspaper to his brief career in Chicago to his eventual, grateful return to Atlanta. <br />Inspiring, thoughtful, and downright funny at the same time (the scene with one of Lewis's editors planning coverage of the Second Coming is a riot), If I Ever Get Back to Georgia would make a great gift for any college student aspiring to break into newspapers. What better way to be inspired than to read one of the great Southern humorists!	2001-08-20
US	53079398	R1JV82FTNL9WYO	1893162680	251452220	The Deadly Habit	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good habit to pick up	A popular young nun is killed in an apparent car bombing just weeks before taking her final vows, and Detective Jerome &quot;Stan&quot; Stankowski is called to solve the case. Paired with the moody yet instinctive deputy Attorney General Parker Noble, Stan finds he is getting more than he bargained for in The Deadly Habit: a victim with no apparent enemies whose father, a tyrannical newspaper publisher, may or may not have been the actual target. That the father collected enemies the way some people collect baseball cards is no help to Stan in whittling down a list of names. When Buffy Coyle, an amorous young ex-reporter, wants to play detective herself (and eventually play &quot;house&quot; with Stan), the detective soon finds some things are more aggravating than solving a crime.<br />Manno's style in The Deadly Habit is to the point, much like a &quot;Dragnet&quot; police procedural. Stan, telling the story in first-person narrative, offers the reader little in the way of personal information, and that makes him all the more appealing. Viewing Parker Noble through his eyes is a fascinating exercise as well, and it is fun to see Stan continually grow agitated with Parker's quirky behavior: his constant phone calls to check on the well-being of his dog, his acquired taste for flavored coffee, and an appetite for food that would normally stop the heart of a healthy man -- equally deadly habits depending on one's point of view.<br />I must admit, though, I felt somewhat frustrated while reading, yet I was compelled to finish because I just had to know the killer's identity. Manno offered a number of reasonable motives and slyly planted the clues where I could not easily find them as I have in other mysteries. He had me literally guessing until the end; I suppose in a way the gruff Parker Noble got to me the way he did to Stan -- he just grows on you, and becomes quite a habit himself.	2001-07-18
US	53079398	R3177AW2BPVYYM	037326187X	138590381	Nun Plussed	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A disappointment	I'm sorry to admit that when it comes to reviewing Nun Plussed, I am nonplussed.   I was disappointed in this story, considering especially that Monica Quill is a pen name for Ralph McInerny, a novelist of some renown. I really wanted to enjoy this novel, especially when I picked it up and saw that its sleuth was Sister Mary Teresa, a crotchety yet delightful throwback to the pre-Vatican II days of &quot;penguin&quot; habits and good manners. She is a woman with an eye for mystery and a silent distaste for modernization, especially when it comes to the other sisters of her waning religious order.<br />In Nun Plussed, Sister &quot;Emtee&quot; receives a wedding invitation from a former student, who is then murdered. Further investigation reveals that this student, Margaret Doyle, was not really engaged at all, that the wedding was all an illusion in her mind. An intriguing setup to a mystery story, yes, but the rest of the novel just falls flat despite all efforts of the sisters of the Order of Martha and Mary to find the killer. A casual explanation in the last chapter attempts to tie up the mystery, but to me it just seemed contrived.<br />Perhaps I didn't catch Monica/Ralph on one of her/his better days. Amazon.com lists eight other titles in this series. Perhaps I will give the old nun another chance.	2001-07-18
US	53079398	RKAB0T402181Y	0380787075	486746980	Fear of Frying (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Great read for a weekend	For a light and quick weekend read, Jill Churchill's Fear of Frying fit the bill. For those of you unfamiliar with Churchill's Jane Jeffrys series (of which this is the ninth installment), amateur sleuth Jane is a single mother who likes to cook and/or eat, and has a detective boyfriend (a no-show in this story) and a best friend named Shelley. Despite the title, Jane doesn't do much cooking here, though it does give a hint with regards to the murder weapon of choice. <br />Along with various other people in their social circle (including two car dealership execs and their wives, a high school principal and her complacent husband), Jane and Shelley volunteer to spend a few days to evaluate Camp Sunshine, a wilderness resort which owner Benson Titus hopes to contract to the area school district for summer programs. Shades of Allan Sherman's &quot;Hello Muddah, Hello Faddah&quot; are evident during this trip as a bit of heavy rain spoils the atmosphere for Jane and Shelley, but not so much as the lifeless body of car dealership owner Sam Claypool which they discover lying by a doused campfire. <br />When Sam turns up alive later that evening, and the rest of their working vacation is marred by environmental activists, a washed-out bridge leading to freedom and a grumpy sheriff, Jane and Shelley are hardly happy campers. All the same, it's fun to read. I hated camp, I sympathize entirely. <br />Fear of Frying may be predictable for some, but as a cozy read it works: I enjoyed being introduced to Jane and Shelley and hope to become more familiar with them in the future. They play off each other with good humor, they seem like real people and their ability to rely upon observation rather than blatant snooping is reminiscent of Christie's Miss Marple. A good read to take to the beach.	2001-06-28
US	53079398	RX2D7F1FRTNHF	1575665743	41748885	Going Out In Style (Dallas O'Connor Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Murder is fashionable	Chloe Green is the pseudonym for one Suzanne Frank, authoress of a series of time-travel romance/suspense books, none of which I have read. Her debut mystery, Going Out in Style, is about as far away as one can get from time travel and ancient civilizations.  <br />Anyway, Going Out concerns Dallas O'Connor, a local set designer who arranges and designs sets for catalog fashion shoots and similar projects; that is, Dallas would normally be doing these things if she were not in hiding. See, when she reports early to work one morning she happens upon the lifeless body of an up-and-coming model, not to mention the very life-filled body of a hunky Cuban artist named Raul who is holding the murder weapon. Sometimes the early bird gets more than the worm, sometimes she gets accused of wielding the knife herself for the final cut. Raul, naturally, asserts his own innocence as well, and Dallas is reluctantly made his partner in crime investigation. So, she blends into the city for which she was named, sneaking around to colleagues and friends conducting her own investigation in order to clear her name. It's not as easy as it sounds, however, as it seems somebody is usually one step ahead of her, planting traps and staging other crimes that have the police thinking Dallas is on some sort of spree, and Dallas must work quickly before she finds herself fashionably late to her own funeral.<br />Going Out is a nice, enjoyable read with moments of mirth and lunacy (particularly when Dallas and Raul are hashing out their plans and options); Dallas especially is likeable as a harried heroine who knows her priorities and still feels justified in bending the rules (it's not everyday somebody accepts a date with a stranger in a fancy restaurant when she's supposed to be running for her life). I suppose I also like this story because of its originality, since I do not recall having read a Texas-set mystery in years, much less anything with the fashion industry as a backdrop. If Suzanne/Chloe can tear herself away from her romances, I think she can continue to keep the Dallas O'Connor series in fashion.	2001-05-25
US	53079398	R1FW3X71S2KJG9	1581821239	930021356	Airtight Case: A Lindsay Chamberlain Novel (Lindsay Chamberlain Mysteries)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	I Love Lindsay!	If you have read any of the first four books of the Lindsay Chamberlain mysteries you know already Beverly Connor is a good writer. Read Airtight Case and you will know she is a great writer. Airtight Case is simply the best of the series so far.<br />One thing I enjoy in particular about Connor's stories is how she introduces the element of mystery literally with the first few senteces, and we are already asking our questions and eager for the answers. In this story, we find Lindsay as a bruised amnesia patient in a Tennessee hospital; a seedy stranger tries to claim her as his fiancee but she appears to know enough that her life would be in more danger were she to allow herself to accompany this man. Her instincts, as usual, are correct.<br />Skip ahead some time later and Lindsay has joined an excavation in Great Smoky Mountain area, where her reputation as a forensic anthropoligist and amateur sleuth evokes fascination among some on the dig and derision from one manager in particular who is convinced Lindsay's presence is a threat to her authority. Nonetheless, the crew is more concerned with the discovery of a makeshift graveyard in the area, and Lindsay tries her best to concentrate on the mysteries of the mountains' past rather than her own.<br />The ghosts of her past troubles, however, continue to haunt her, and are literally manifested in Lindsay's conciousness as actual ghosts prowling the nineteenth-century home being used as headquarters, ghosts only Lindsay can see. When some a superior from her school and some locals persuade Lindsay to help investigate the mysterious death of an elderly relative which may be connected to the dig site, Lindsay is forced to hold on to her slowly slipping sanity lest she arouses too much suspicion and once again puts herself in danger.<br />Connor has created a passionate and respectable character in Lindsay Chamberlain, a lady who, while she does not necessarily laugh in the face of danger, manages to steel herself enough to not let it destroy her. Connor's descriptions of the archaeological dig and its surrounding history are superbly detailed, and provide for a few surprising revelations in the supplemental mystery which ties in nicely with Lindsay's own adventures.<br />I knew Beverly Connor briefly when I lived in Athens, and when I last spoke to her (back when A Rumor of Bones just came out) she was contracted for five novels. Now that Airtight Case is out, I would sincerely hope a contract renewal is in Connor's future. This series has produced some unique, compelling stories, and so long as Connor's ideas are fresh, I should hope to read of Lindsay's escapades for years to come.	2001-05-25
US	53079398	R15DN6HB58Q1SP	0595132820	465024531	The Outlier	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Chilling story of abuse and revenge	Roland Briggs, sheriff of a small Massachusetts town in the early 1970s, must solve the area's first murders committed in fifteen years. Between personal problems -- an estranged family and a troubled affair with a married woman -- and professional problems -- memories of the job on a big city police force which continue to haunt him -- Roland strives to do his job right despite political pressure and the nagging feeling the wrong perp is being accused. Interspersed with this mystery through flashbacks is the history of the killer, Victor, through which his progress from an abused orphan to cold-hearted adult out for revenge is detailed.<br />I loved the characterization in this novel: in particular the exhausted, angst-ridden sheriff who tries to find justification in his actions during a torrid, illicit romance while balancing his responsibilities on the job. I liked also the point of view of the killer, and how Stanton portrayed his metamorphosis from scared, abused child sentenced indefinitely to a hellish life in a mental ward to a merciless killer determined to seek vengeance in the name of his mistreated siblings. <br />The Outlier is an eye-opener as well in its portrayal of the attitudes towards the mentally disabled in the 1950s and earlier. A book like this should make people angry, good as it is. Stanton researched well the history of mental health facilities in the early part of the century, and the vivid nature of the treatment of these people is sometimes unbearable to read. The mention of &quot;eugenics&quot; as it relates to the story is chilling. It's just something you have to read for yourself. If you're interested in stories of serial killings and crime, The Outlier is an engrossing read.	2001-04-04
US	53079398	R3DD41ZNTGQDLA	0802136346	166854560	Being There	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Brief, yet entertaining satire	A friend recommended Jerzy Kosinski to me, so I thought I'd start with a fairly familiar title, though I have yet to see the movie.  &quot;Being There&quot; is quite short, though the story is by no means short on style and quality. Kosinski offers a powerful, unlikely hero in Chance, whose simple philosophies on tending a garden are misinterpreted by people around them as guidance for controlling the national economy. It is amusing to read how all these well-educated, self-important people twist Chance's words to suit their own purposes and beliefs, so much that this simple-minded gardener is, in the course of a few days, one of the most admired men in the nation!<br />I also like Kosinski's take on the media, as presented through Chance's love for television -- he accepts a name change to Chauncey Gardiner (as accidentally heard by EE Rand), thinking that is standard for people on television to do. The scene in particular where Chance is invited on a program to speak is fun to read, as Chance wonders how he will translate physically onscreen. Though this book was written twenty years ago, it still speaks to us today as a good satire on media and American culture, and how we tend to make heroes of people who do not necessarily fit the mold. It would have been interesting to see this work translated today, with the advent of cable television and the Internet.	2001-04-01
US	53079398	R2CZ49N8V8FEK6	0312966024	865627315	Family Skeletons (Torie O'Shea Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Charming cozy, interesting debut for MacPherson	When &quot;Torie&quot; is not pointing out the fine craftmanship of an antique writing desk to tourists or sandbagging around her home to keep the mighty Mississippi from sweeping her life away, she freelances in genealogical research. Local antique shop owner Norah Zumwaldt employs Torie to track the whereabouts of the father she never knew, believed KIA during World War II. Torie accepts the challenge; she is intrigued by the mystery of the project, but finds herself embroiled in a bigger mystery when Nora is murdered. Clearly for Torie it's one more death year to add to the tree and her family hopes she will leave it at that. If she did, though, there wouldn't be a story.<br />The search for Norah's killer encompasses Torie's expertise in research, as it appears some &quot;family skeletons&quot; just won't stay in the closet, not to mention some long-lost relatives and a slew of unsolved murders from the past that may be linked to Norah's. Bolstered by Torie's witty yet sometimes exhausted point-of-view (what mother of two small children with a full-time doesn't get tired sometimes?), Family Skeletons is a light, cozy read one can finish rather quickly. <br />Be warned, however, of a brief continuity error that may leave you scratching your head more so than the actual mystery: early on in the story Torie is talking to a contact and mentions that the last time she saw him was at his mother's funeral. A few sentences later she is threatening the fellow with telling his mother about a past affair of his unless he delivers some important information. I admit I had to read the passage a few times to get that straight. I'm sure it is just an oversight that didn't get corrected in the final editing (unless I read it wrong). It shouldn't, however, divert you from the main mystery.	2001-03-26
US	53079398	R3JHB0FAXY4DPS	0759613206	114079336	There We Stood, Here We Stand : Eleven Lutherans Rediscover Their Catholic Roots	Books	4	50	57	N	N	You don't have to be Lutheran to enjoy this book...	...nor even a Catholic. Anybody with an interest in the Catholic faith and why people from Protestant denominations 'cross the Tiber' will find this title on par with other great apologetics books in print. <br />There We Stood chronicles eleven former Lutherans -- including a few female pastors -- on their spiritual journeys and how issues such as the Lutheran church's stance on abortion and how Martin Luther's original teachings differ from that of the church today affected their decisions to convert. <br />I enjoyed reading especially the stories of the female pastors, all of whom were fully aware that their ordinations would not transfer over to the Catholic faith as they might for a male pastor, even a married one. To read how they decided Christ in His Church was more important was truly inspiring, and they prove that women do have an important place in the Church, serving through various other ministries.<br />All in all There We Stood is a well-written collection of essays and a wonderful testimony for the Catholic faith. It's been said the Church's greatest promoters are converts, and this book proves that theory.	2001-03-09
US	53079398	R24R68329AW0JP	1575666227	661084242	Hair Raiser (Bad Hair Day Mystery)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Series is getting better	I'll admit that while I did not completely like Permed to Death, Hair Raiser's predecessor, I did not hate it, either. While I found the characterization a bit awkward and certain sub-plots of the story predictable, I thought Cohen had a nice concept with Marla Shore and hope she could pull off an improved sequel. I'm happy to say Hair Raiser is evidence that Cohen is getting better at the mystery game.<br />The mystery -- where Marla is determined to hunt the killer of a lawyer on the board of an environmental committee which includes her cousin -- is thought out and written well. Plus the relationship between Marla and Detective Vail makes for great page-turning sexual tension -- their relationship does not come off as awkward as it did in the first book. I can genuinely say I'm looking forward to reading more.	2001-02-23
US	53079398	RA2GSA6X2WSKX	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The plucky Plum and Big Blue are back...	...and they brought friends, including everybody's favorite 250-plus pound ex-hooker, Lula, and a codebreaking drag queen named Sally Sweet, brought in to help bounty hunter Stephanie Plum get her man, or rather, woman.<br />Maxine, Stephanie's lastest bounty assignment, is a car theft skip which should be a simple pickup. Instead, Stephanie is subjected to a torturous scavenger hunt with the skip's ex-boyfriend, who accounts for 90% of the &quot;torture&quot; (mentally, anyway), and to some competition from her mortal enemy, Joyce Barnhardt. So now Stephanie has to get to Maxine, who knows more about other crimes than she wishes to reveal, before Joyce does, and before the Reaper gets to Stephanie.<br />Four is funnier, and faster-paced than its predecessor. When Joe and Stephanie get together, it gets hot, too.	2000-12-18
US	53079398	R1AQSLC129N20D	1883523109	387900802	The Well-Heeled Murders	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Amusing mystery for fans of the genre	Morgan McRain is not a detective, but undoubtably she has seen enough episodes of Murder, She Wrote to know the basic routines of searching for clues and deducing the guilty party from a list of suspects. So when the office mate of a colleague is found dead and barefoot on her psychiatric couch--the victim of a very resilient pair of pantyhose--Morgan quickly shifts her therapy practice to the backburner, puts on her imaginary houndstooth cap and joins the hunt for the murderer, revealing in the process the seamier side of a few licensed professionals.<br />The Well-Heeled Murders could pass for a treatment of a politically-correct MSW script--had Jessica Fletcher been a lesbian with a life partner, daughter, and homosexual &quot;brother-in-law&quot;/nanny. However, the addition of a green detective, Sam Reynolds, with the hots for the male nanny (how convenient!) and a subplot involving the murderer's apparent shoe fetish and a tight-knit groups of swingers, and the story is given a twist of which would incite the envious natures of Aaron Spelling.<br />Morgan, having maintained some degree of civility with members of the exclusive swingers group (so exclusive it doesn't have a name) of which the victim was a member, agrees to assist Sam in tracking the killer, and eventually outshines the detective in both the brawn and brain departments. Hartman makes it clear that this is Morgan's case from the beginning--certain chapters even lend the possibility that Morgan is a bit more determined than the entire Portland, Oregon police force to catch the killer, and that Sam is just around to bounce off dialogue and flirt with the brother-in-law.<br />Hartman has the potential of creating an interesting mystery series with the Morgan McRain character--Morgan is witty, sensible, and has the same scrappy, down-to-earth charm that has endeared readers to the likes of Kinsey Millhone and V. I. Warshawski.	2000-12-18
US	53079398	RE1RO660N1JR	0679765611	989306088	Crossing the Threshold of Hope	Books	5	60	64	N	N	A simple, yet inspiring read	Crossing the Threshold is a very interesting treatise from the Holy See written in the form of an interview, where the Pope explains his views of various Christian beliefs - including his belief in God, his views of non-Christian and non-Catholic faiths, and Mariology. His views appear to negate the claims put forth by anti-Catholics and tend to look to the new millennium with hope instead of fear.<br />An important message in this book is reiterated strongly by JPII's pontificate: Be not afraid. Great advice from probably the greatest Pope we've had in a long time.	2000-12-12
US	53079398	R1KWW9JQX5W6	0385065396	382721346	The Way of Perfection (Image Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Teresa's advice to her order holds true even today	The Way of Perfection is a thoughtful treatise on prayer and moral chastity and obedience among the sisters of Teresa's order, good advice as applicable now as it was then. We can become whole by devoting all to God, eschewing importance of material goods and learning to contemplate the goodness and mercy of Christ in prayer.<br />Considering the continuing moral decline we see in society today, books such as this are important now more than ever. Teresa used to berate herself for years over the few instances she wore makeup in public and was concerned for her looks; imagine if she were alive now to see some people out there wearing nothing but makeup!	2000-12-12
US	53079398	R2ODJBYJIV4ZWU	0385036434	822698723	Interior Castle	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Beautiful treatise on prayer	Interior Castle is a marvelous treatise on prayer, where the soul is likened to a castle in which are housed many mansions, or levels, of prayer. Teresa, known to have experienced ecstacies, was clearly devoted to Jesus Christ and this work is evidence of that. How powerful her words are coming from humble hands and mind! Each mansion is a step in further strengthening the soul to receive Christ's light and grace.<br />This may seem like heavy reading to some, but I have found Teresa easier to read than other Carmelite mystics. Interior Castle is definitely required reading if you are interested in Catholic mysticism.	2000-12-12
US	53079398	R177GPHKIMYMA6	0879758023	148311382	Visions of Reality	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Eye-opening survey of fundamentalist curricula	This book was recommended reading on an atheist website, though there is information in this book that will be of interest to others, particularly Christians who do not fall under the 'fundamentalist' umbrella. This eye-opening book details the tenets of a private, fundamental education and the biased textbooks used to offer children a one-sided view of the world.<br />Of interest to Catholics in particular is a survey of the contents in various textbooks published by Bob Jones University, which is an anti-Catholic institution (their textbooks easily reflect this sentiment).	2000-12-08
US	53079398	R2CUK9Z1ZLM12F	0918949920	347884228	Threads of Experience: Fabric-And-Thread Images	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beautiful collection of poetry	Threads of Experience is a beautiful collection of poetry centered around aging which alternates bookspace with fabric portraits of graceful aging and wisdom with wrinkles. Threads here hold a double meaning: 1)those stitched together to form the faces revealing years of love, pain and laughter, and 2) those words stitched together to form fluid poetry, enhancing each quilt image presented in this wonderful book.	2000-12-08
US	53079398	RFB2JLEDRTKY3	0929264894	287852010	Chaos Clear As Glass: A Memoir	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Brief but fascinating memoir	Ann Hyman is a regular columnist for the Florida Times-Union in Jacksonville, FL, and Chaos Clear as Glass is a slim collection of her memories growing up in the area, as well as stories of a trip to the Soviet Union. If you are familiar with Ann's column and can get a copy of this rare book, you will enjoy her relaxed, anecdotal style. The influences of Eugenia Price and other regional writers are recognizable in Ann's writing.	2000-12-08
US	53079398	R6NYT97YFWBO7	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good story hampered by style	I could tell easily that Carrie had to have been one of King's first novels just by the way it was written. Carrie doesn't read so much like a narrative, but as a collection of different viewpoints trying to tell the same story, one of a tormented young girl with telekenetic powers who exacts revenge on those who treated her badly.<br />In Carrie, we read selections from the &quot;Carrie White Commission&quot;, convened to discern why and how Carrie practically destroyed her community, from Sue Snell's autobiography, which exudes some compassion for Carrie in the aftermath, among others. Overall, the effect did not work for me: I found the book confusing and the writing just subpar of what King has since delivered. I suppose since I had seen the film version before reading the book, that made Carrie tolerable reading.<br />If you're new to King, I recommend The Shining or Misery, and suggest watching the film version of Carrie instead.	2000-12-08
US	53079398	RE4V7E4BAXUN5	0895555425	20401778	Blessed Miguel Pro: 20th Century Mexican Martyr	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Brief yet informative biography of Mexican martyr	Blessed Miguel's life was, tragically, very short, thereby leaving a dearth of information for biographers and promoters of the cause for Miguel's canonization. What information exists, however, is shaped by Ann Ball into a well-rounded portrait the Mexican priest who, though not all of his actions may be considered &quot;saintly&quot;, is one of the best-known figures in the history of Church persecution in Mexico. <br />Ann Ball's book is short, yet very informative and entertaining -- it is difficult not to smile when reading the anecdotes of Blessed Miguel's deceptions of the police persuing him and other religious, yet a few pages later reading of his eventual martyrdom strikes a sad chord. This is recommended reading for anyone interested in studying modern persecution of the Catholic Church.	2000-12-06
US	53079398	RFFSWBBTTRXTU	1928832180	255382263	Surprised by Truth 2: 15 Men and Women Give the Biblical and Historical Reasons For Becoming Catholic. (v. 2)	Books	4	49	49	N	N	Great sequel to great book	If you subscribe to Envoy Magazine you may already be familiar with some of the stories in this wonderful sequel to Surprised by Truth. Nonetheless, this volume is a terrific addition to any Catholic apologetics collection if you do not keep an archive of the stories as they appeared in the magazine. <br />While the first Surprised by Truth concentrated primarily on Evangelical Protestant converts to the Faith, Surprised by Truth 2 chronicles the stories of converts from other realms: Mormonism, paganism, Judaism and Unitarianism among others. This volume even included stories from cradle Catholics who fell away and returned. I thought it interesting to read to read these viewpoints, as &quot;Catholic convert&quot; books usually focus upon former Fundamentalists who join the Church and it is rare to find conversion stories about Mormons, Jehovahs Witnesses and people of other faiths. I enjoyed reading how the people in SbT2 discovered how they came to Catholicism: which included thorough study of the Bible, prayer, and moral issues like abortion.<br />Books like this are great not only for people considering the Catholic Faith but for cradle Catholics seeking assurance in their faith.	2000-12-06
US	53079398	R2W7ZG4K8HTIM8	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Third time's the charm	Everybody in the burg loves Uncle Mo. He and his candy store are institutions and beloved by generations of sweets shoppers. A man who sells ice cream for a living has to qualify for immediate sainthood, don't you think?<br />So when bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is assigned the task of bringing Mo in after his failure to appear for a weapons charge, people are aghast...that mean old Stephanie is out to get Mo! &quot;Mo would never do that&quot; becomes the new mantra for Trenton, and it's giving Steph a headache. When hooker-turned-file clerk Lula (all 200+ plus pounds of her) volunteers herself as Stephanie's assistant, there soon isn't enough aspirin to be consumed.<br />Three to Get Deadly chronicles the search for Mo and unpeels the unsightly layers of his so-called saintly exterior, revealing serial killings of area drug dealers and rampant vigilantism which, after a few run-ins, causes Stephanie's bones to ache as well. If I had a dollar for every body found in this book, I'd be up to my armpits in Mo's penny candy.<br />Despite the seriousness and sheer volume of crime, however, Evanovich is equally big on humor. Stephanie's climatic capture of a runaway FTA fast food worker, for one, is a scream, and the ever-present sexual tension between Stephanie and Joe Morelli is an enjoyable read.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R1BCM70578WWHR	0451402367	608260226	Malice in Maggody (An Arly Hanks Mystery)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Down-home, interesting read	You know you're living in a small town with simple folk when the smartest resident manages to pass the GED exam on the third try, and her biggest ambition lies in a beauty school at the state capital.<br />Okay, so fictional Maggody, Arkansas isn't that archaic, but it certainly has its share of interesting folks, most of whom are name Buchanon (you'll just have to read the book for the explanation). Keeping, or trying to keep, order among the good citizens of Maggody is sheriff Arly Hanks, a native who fled and eventually reverted for a quieter life. Fat chance.<br />All the malice in Maggody seems to be happening at once, with an escaped rapist threatening to make his way back to town to his ex-wife, the would-be beautician (the novel's victim), and the mysterious disappearance of a state official come to survey a nearby reservoir as the home of future sewage, and one wonders if Arly will flee back to the serenity of Manhattan.<br />She doesn't, though, much to the delight of mystery fans, and the &quot;malice&quot; in Maggody turns into hilarity in its final scenes.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R3M67HHG7X7GRD	1575664720	198849322	Watchdog (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Getting better with every book	Funny how we don't hear much from Melanie Travis's brother Frank in her previous mystery adventures. We know he exists, and we've seen him a few times during family get-togethers; all the same, I'm sure Melanie prefers not to have him around, for when he is he's either raiding her refrigerator or asking for money. In Watchdog, Frank is asking for much more: he wants his sister to help clear his name when a business associate is murdered.<br />Frank's latest big venture in a string of failed jobs and prospects is a coffee bar in a nearby Connecticut township. Locals are protesting the business, and one would that was the worst of Frank's worries. Then his financial backer turns up dead on the construction site, and Melanie -- whose hands are full with dog shows, a new job, and a marriage proposal (finally!) from Sam -- must come to the rescue.<br />Berenson is always a delight to read, with fun characters and lessons in dog grooming. Watchdog is no exception; watch out for this one and for Melanie's future exploits.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R3RFJSGZ36YJNH	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Like an adventurous sitcom	There's an unwritten rule in the &quot;burg&quot; bounty hunter Stephanie Plum calls home: if you're dealing with a Mancuso or a Morelli, expect trouble.<br />Lucky Steph...she's getting a double dose in Two for the Dough. She's been assigned to haul in Kenny Mancuso, a bail jumper who shot his so-called best friend in the knee. Thing is, Kenny doesn't want to be caught, and his distant relative Joe Morelli (if these books become movies they should get Chris Meloni from L&amp;O:SVU to play this guy)really doesn't want Stephanie to catch him, as Kenny's involved in one of his cases.<br />Did I say double trouble? Perhaps we should raise the ante a bit, seeing as how in the midst of all this Stephanie has to deal with a slimy funeral home director with a missing casket problem and Grandma Mazur's eagerness to help out her granddaughter while at the same time getting great seats for the latest viewings. Talk about putting the &quot;fun&quot; back in &quot;funeral&quot;.<br />Seriously, this is a great followup to One for the Money, and just absorbing the tension between Stephanie and Joe can only guarantee that three through six, and beyond, will be &quot;hot&quot;.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R3CXPDIY54W40Q	0684845636	128057121	Murder @ Maggody.com : An Arly Hanks Mystery (Madcap Maggody Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Amusingmystery.com	The Information Superhighway has finally plowed through Maggody, Arkansas, and depending on various views this is either a proud moment in the town's history or the first sign of the Apocalypse. When the local high school is granted the funds to install a computer lab complete with Internet access, citizens of Maggody are suddenly &quot;wired,&quot; trading pie recipes with each other and working to construct a Web site which hopefully will help put Maggody on the map. Chief of police Arly Hanks dismisses the concept as just another distraction and remains a bystander in all the fervor. It's difficult to blame her, too, for the advent of the Internet has not stopped trouble in this sleepy little town.<br />Elderly residents of the Pot O'Gold Trailer Park are arming themselves, fitfully frightened of a new long-haired biker tenant, and wayward single mother Gwynnie Packwood struggle to eke out an existence despite help from Arly's mother Ruby and Gwynnie's disappoving aunt and uncle. When Gwynnie is found dead, Arly doesn't need a computer to tell her somebody in Maggody is guilty.<br />Now, I usually don't read series novels out of order, but being so active on the Internet I had to pick up this title before reading the remaining Maggody novels. I'm glad I did, too, because murder@maggody.com has its moments of hilarity and silliness. Arly is cantankerous, her mother and friend Estelle delightfully precocious, and the Buchannons are aplenty. Maybe by the next novel everybody will have mastered Javascript. I could use a few pointers myself.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R1REB8DGP01UV	0590076159	46820693	The Treasure Trap	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I loved this book as a child	The Treasure Trap also goes by an alternate title, The Haunted Mansion Mystery, and is the story of shy Billy Beak and his new next-door neighbor, Angel Wilson, an eccentric young girl who is as wild as Billy is mild. She has a yen for adventure and the supernatural, and when she learns that her new home once belonged to a long-dead miser believed to have horded a million dollars somewhere in the house, Angel is anxious to get rich and drags Billy along for the ride. She recruits neighborhood children to dig up her yard in one scene, and ultimately gets Billy into all sorts of mischief looking for the treasure.<br />I really wish I could relay more about this book, and I'm surprised after twenty years I can even remember what I have just written! The Treasure Trap has been out-of-print for years, and I am unable to find a copy where I live. I would love to get my hands on a reasonably-priced, good condition copy, however, if anything to have as a memento of the first book I truly adored on my own. If you find one for yourself, hang on to it. It's a story I still treasure after all these years.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R2PCI57TL7B42W	0967883253	772177724	The Eighth House	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Unique twist on &quot;apocalyptic&quot; fiction	The Eighth House is not a mystery in the &quot;whodunnit&quot; sense, but more of a suspense story enhancing the classic theme of good versus evil. Here, in Sealy's debut, the stakes are higher and take on apocalyptic dimensions, mixing astrology with prophecy and turning upside-down the lives of a struggling new family.<br />In the first third of the story, we are introduced to Edward Hastings, an enterprising lad in turn-of-the-century New York who founds a successful brothel before he is of legal age and gains a notarious reputation. His untimely death spirals him down to a pact with the Devil, which offers Edward an avenue to vent anger left over from his mortal days while aiding the Devil in bringing about the ruin of civilization. Sealy offers an imaginative view of Hell and its residents (including the Devil's wife, interestingly named Angelica), not to mention Edward's detailed demonic training.<br />By the turn of the 21st century, Edward is enjoying his supernatural power and using and abusing it with relish. His one mistake comes from writing all of his plans down in a diary (coded with astrological charts and ancient languages), which is ultimately lost and bought at auction by a college professor. Aaron Jacobs presents said diary to his fiance, Terecita Ellis, as a gift. Guess what...she's an astrologer!<br />The second two-thirds of The Eighth House concern Edward's hunt for the diary and consquently for Terecita, who turns out to be more than an innocent participant, as she slowly comes to realize her role in preventing future cataclysmic events. Terecita's knowledge of astrology is focal in explaining the novel's events and action; though I have not had interest in astrology or prophecy beyond select books of the Old Testament, I nonetheless found interesting and entertaining how Sealy wove these concepts into what could likely become a favored story in the growing genre of &quot;end times&quot; books.<br />Ms. Sealy's debut is a compelling, suspenseful story that might even qualify as a romance (considering the great tension between Terecita and Aaron). She is also quite clever in setting up the story for a sequel, leaving the reader wanting more. Regardless of your views on astrology or any sort of divination, The Eighth House is good escapist fiction and a unique twist on a classic theme.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R1C3ARV55UGN7S	1575666243	429937441	Permed To Death (Bad Hair Day Mystery)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A quick, OK read	I found Permed to Death at the library, and immediately picked it up. How could anyone resist such a title?<br />This is, according the author's bio, the first published volume of a series starring Marla Shore, a South Florida hairstylist living happily alone (for the most part) despite the loud wishes of her mother and would-be suitors that Marla return to the dating scene. In this debut, Marla is seeing to regular customer/nag Bertha Kravitz who dies mid-perm from poisoning. Turns out Marla keeps a special stash of coffee creamer for Mrs. Kravitz in the salon and it is discovered to be tainted; clearly somebody wanted to cream more than coffee with it.<br />Thus, Marla instigates her own investigation to clear her name -- seeing as how Detective Vail is ready to arrest her based on opportunity and lack of witnesses, she did buy the creamer, you know -- while also seeking to destroy some evidence that would definitely give Marla a motive as well. Marla hints often at this blackmail package Mrs. Kravitz had held over her in exchange for free 'dos, and I long figured it out before the nature of the evidence was revealed. Getting said material back from Bertha's whiny, conceited, and/or sleazy relatives and associates proves to be a pain.<br />As far as the mystery goes, Permed to Death has its fun moments, particularly when Marla interacts with various supporting characters, yet reads a bit long. Though I could not immediately pick up on the murderer as other readers of this novel claim to have done, I got the feeling Marla didn't exactly make any shortcuts in her sleuthing. Her relationship with the cynical Detective Vail, in particular, comes off as awkward -- it appears as if Marla's primping for this man's visits and cursing him in the same breath. I'm reading this book and wondering to myself if Cohen was trying to introduce some sexual tension or to get us to believe that Marla and Vail would eventually become a couple. I didn't see some of the things Vail saidand did in this book as typical of a true homicide detective.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R55KRSWS3CUXW	0595001580	767935668	Washed Up: A Claire Maxwell Mystery (Claire Maxwell Mysteries)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Insert Jaws Theme Here	Iowa must be taking a vacation from small-town crime interesting enough to a freelance writer, because Claire Maxwell is off to Florida in this second installment of Lynn Wingert's mystery series. In Washed Up, Claire is on a research trip, gathering information on shark attacks for an article. She isn't in the Sunshine State for a day when she discovers just how much information is to be had.<br />For one thing, Claire dives headfirst into a flirtateous relationship with a local police officer, himself a victim of a shark attack and supposedly Claire's main resource of information for the article. However, when multiple bodies wash up on the shores of Miami Beach, alleged victims of shark attacks, Claire come to two conclusions: 1) There's a very hungry shark circling the waters; or 2) Something else &quot;fishy&quot; is happening.<br />As in Dead on My Feet, the reader is treated to Claire Maxwell's saucy tongue and yen for junk food. While some might think the romance between Claire and Lieutenant Chris Merrett a bit rushed, it does make for some good-natured dialogue. The revelation of the mystery's end comes as a complete surprise, as the story's build-up leads the reader to other theories, but all in all Wingert's series is improving.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R1DNZNT4KH0XN1	157566108X	923460935	Underdog: A Melanie Travis Mystery	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Hardly an underdog	Melanie Travis appears to have learned quite a bit about the dog show world in between Pedigree and this second Berenson novel. In Underdog we find Melanie is a Poodle owner now, grooming her puppy for the big time, yet still unable to avoid trouble.<br />It happens when a dog trainer and friend of Melanie's dies suddenly from what appears to be natural causes. Melanie, however, refuses to let sleeping dogs lie (I have GOT to stop it with these dog puns) and returns once again to sleuth mode. <br />Like Pedigree, Underdog is a quick read; I would estimate a mystery fan could finish this book in 1-2 days. The story as a whole is quite good -- it will be interesting to see how the budding romance between Melanie and fellow dog owner Sam Driver plays out in future novels -- yet I must admit I had a good idea as to who the murderer was early in the story. Usually I'm not very adept at that, nevertheless I'll see if I can go two for three with the next Melanie Travis mystery.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	ROBUFJFO71SX	1575665964	697917532	Unleashed: A Melanie Travis Mystery (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another dog-eat-dog mystery	Pop quiz time, everyone: what is more stressful than the prospect of having dinner with your fiance's ex-wife? Ask Melanie Travis, and she'll tell you the answer would be solving the woman's murder.<br />In this latest installment of the Melanie Travis mysteries, Laurien Berenson unleashes another engrossing story; this time the victim is the co-publisher of a new dog show gossip rag (the kind everybody in the community reads but won't admit to doing so). Melanie's involvement in solving the crime is requested by an unusual source, too -- her fiance Sam, whose opposition to this hobby has been more than vocal in past novels. That his ex-wife's death drives a wedge between the couple is an understatement, but Melanie can only hope the killer does not separate them permanently.<br />Depending on how attached you are to these characters, you may or may not like the ending of this one, however. I won't give it away, but I will say I was bummed at the outcome (not the mystery, but the personal subplot, you'll know when you get there). Since it will be a while until the next installment in this series, we'll have to wait and see if Melanie will be changing her last name.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R2HEGSZ9FE80A3	0385289596	201162773	Something Queer Is Going on	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I loved this series!	As a child I loved this series of &quot;mystery&quot; books featuring Jill and her best friend Gwen, who always carried her junior detective kit with her. In this story, Jill's droopy dog is kidnapped and the two scour the neighborhood for clues until the mystery is solved by tracking the kidnapper to a TV studio.<br />The illustrations are a delight, all punctuated with amusing captions. I sincerely hope this series is not lost forever, I would like to stock up for when I have children.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	RLDCXHXJKX1XL	1575663740	154308204	A Pedigree To Die For	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Great start to a fun mystery series	I don't know anything about dog breeding, aside from what video snatches of dog shows I happen to catch on Animal Planet as I'm flipping channels. I don't even own a dog (apartment rules, sigh), so when I picked up A Pedigree to Die For I had hoped for at least enough coherent explanations of the breeding and show process to help me understand what was happening in the story without detracting too much from the mystery.<br />I'm happy to say Laurien Berenson, in this debut installment of Melanie Travis mysteries, does a great job of balancing suspense and milieu, about as well as Melanie herself balances single motherhood and sleuthing. It helps here that Melanie, the niece of a champion Standard Poodle breeder, knows little about dog breeding as well, and we learn with her.<br />Of course, while we're learning the difference between a Standard and a Toy Poodle, Melanie is changing hats at breakneck speed -- from mother to aggravated sister to compliant niece to sleuth to summer school teacher and back again. When a prized stud Poodle from Melanie's aunt's kennel is &quot;dognapped&quot;, Aunt Peg convinces Melanie to go undercover and scour the dog breeding community for clues and paw prints.<br />A Pedigree to Die For is a fun, &quot;cozy&quot; read, where the mystery lies in the chase and not in gruesome killings. I'm definitely looking forward to reading more about Melanie going to the dogs in the future.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R2SAXM0OG5XXVY	0553298836	297391723	Copy Kat (Kat Colorado Mysteries)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Light, quick read	Sacramento private investigator Kat Colorado is fresh from a nerve-shattering adventure, and needing a change of scenery. A wheezing old man name Tobias offers her that opportunity when he hires her to look into the four-month old murder of his godniece, Deidre, a crime dismissed by her sleepy northern California town as a robbery and an unfortunate event. The true killer, Tobias believes, was an acquaintance, and he wants Kat to become acquainted with the killer.<br />So Kat becomes Kate, hangs up her badge and puts on a bartender's apron and goes undercover, sinking deeper into her faux life as she becomes entangled in the lives of Deidre's charming widower and young son, her jealous sister, the requisite wacky barmaid-cum-roommate (seems every novel has wisecracking relief these days, though Kat holds her own as well), and a cast of beer-drinking regulars with wandering eyes and hands. Somewhere in this muddle is Deidre's killer, and despite a change in hair color and fashion tastes, that killer appears to have fleshed out Kat.<br />I was trying so hard not to compare Kijewski's Kat Colorado with Sue Grafton's Kinsey Millhone, but the resemblences are difficult to ignore. Both are single, female PIs based in California, tough and uncompromising when a job needs to be done. In Copy Kat, however, we are offered a gentler, more emotional protagonist with a quick wit. Not to say that Grafton's Kinsey doesn't have her moments, but Kat Colorado is less methodical in her routine, and perhaps in the case of Copy Kat that is more enjoyable to read	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R3IXB8ZC1F01LR	0553568779	185173247	Wild Kat (Kat Colorado Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Kijewski gets better with every book	Ever try to do something you feel is the right thing to do, only to have the entire world jump up and grab for your throat in thanks? Amanda Hudson receives worse treatment after discovering her company has been producing a faulty medical device, thus resulting in deaths nationwide. Sacramento PI Kat Colorado becomes involved when Amanda's husband Jude hires her as protection.<br />The plan works, for a while anyway. Just when it seems the harrassment of the Hudsons is over with the arrests of a few hired goons caught trashing their house, Amanda is found dead. The death is ruled an accident, but Kat, having become close to the Hudsons and itching with suspicion, thinks differently, and embarks on her own investigation which uncovers more than just a late do-gooder's crusade for justice.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R3W2UCJR25CNR3	1893652114	889636997	Dead On My Feet: A Claire Maxwell Mystery (Claire Maxwell Mysteries)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good first effort	All Claire wanted to do was putter in her garden and feed hot dogs to her German shepherd. The dead man who rang her doorbell apparently spoiled all plans of leisure.<br />So begins the debut of a new series by Lynn Wingert starring amateur sleuth Claire Maxwell, a freelance medical writer who appears to be more interested in sticking her nose in other people's business than in the books she researches for her articles. Of course, when a wealthy local banker expires at her front door just as the chime fades, the mystery of his death does become Claire's business. A strange one, too, since Claire never knew the man when he was alive.<br />Despite the objections of the local fuzz, who is also Claire's brother (and who really listens to the police and/or family in these kinds of stories, anyway?), Claire grills the dead man's family and aquaintances, finding legitmate motives for everybody but unable to single out anybody as the killer. Just when Claire starts to reconsider to keep her freelancing expertise to medical journals, however, a few surprise twists toward the end of the story lead Claire (and the readers) to a plausible, unusual conclusion. <br />Dead on My Feet is a good first effort for Wingert, who is scheduled (according to her bio) to release two more installments featuring Claire Maxwell. Claire likes to joke with her readers, maintains an awful diet, and appears almost childlike in her curiosity. Think Nancy Drew crossed with Rhoda Morgenstern. It is my hope, though, that Dead's successors provide more story than this first outing -- at only 113 pages, Dead on My Feet may come off to some as too brief, making perhaps a better short story.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R274XN60LKE46Y	0345404947	519420029	Robber's Wine	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Mystery has its moments	One could say that Belle Dumont's family skeletons were buried so deep in the proverbial closet that one might see a bony hand slip underneath the door and drag Belle inside, lest any dark secrets concerning the Dumont's genealogical line and questionable acquisition of wealth be revealed. Unfortunately, on the day Belle called her three grown children to finally discuss the matter, that bony hand did appear in the form of a murderer who silenced Belle with a quick shove on a steep cliff, shocking an entire town who refused to believe that anyone would willfully kill a woman who appeared to have no enemies.<br />As young children, Belle's offspring--Anne, Lyle, Melody--once relied on a concoction called &quot;Robber's Wine&quot; (in actuality, a mixture of various household cleansers poured into a wineglass) to keep them from harm. This talisman, they believed, could tempt any nocturnal burglar into taking a sip, thus causing immediate death and therefore saving the family. As adults, they now realize that no elixir could have saved their mother from the past that obviously returned to haunt, and murder, her. For the Dumont children, Belle's demise is the beginning of a painful journey that threatens to destroy the family. <br />For Anne's friends, Jane Lawless and Cordelia Thorn, Belle's death mean not only delaying a much desired vacation, but also the taking the opportunity to solve a prickling mystery.<br />Robber's Wine is the seventh installment of the award-winning Jane Lawless mystery series, and, thus far, the first book in the series I have been privileged to read. Often I am hesitant to start a series mystery novel without first reading those that precede it, but restraints on time would not allow me to research Jane Lawless's history of solving crimes. However, after finishing Robber's Wine I can say that it is not entirely necessary to go back to Hart's previous efforts--this novel reads as fresh as the first installment of any series, there is no baggage required on this trip.<br />All one needs to know is that Jane Lawless is Minneapolis restaurateur and a &quot;widowed&quot; lesbian, her companion having died of cancer some years before the current events in Robber's Wine. Her friend, Cordelia, is an eccentric theater director whose sexual preference is not blatantly explained in this book (it may have been, however, in earlier novels), though her penchant for wisecracking and dramatic overtures is. She is Maryann to Jane's Cybill, though not as conscious a dresser.<br />With Jane's careful assessments of Belle's murder and the events that result from or surround it and Cordelia's perfectly timed wit (a scene involving Cordelia, a toothless elderly woman, and a bowl of hard candy comes to mind), Hart has created an enthralling mystery. Tensions play high in this novel: the three Dumont children not only become suspicious of outsiders (Melody's psychotic estranged husband, a long-lost uncle demanding his share of Belle's estate) but also of each other, especially when Robber's Wine becomes a factor in a second murder. Add the immediate disdain of townsfolk upon learning that Belle's roommate, Helvi, was in actuality Belle's lover, and Robber's Wine is a drama laced with powerful emotions and enough twists to keep one stumped until the last chapter.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R99CDGX1151BH	1575662272	562922894	Dog Eat Dog: A Melanie Travis Mystery (Melanie Travis Mysteries)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Woof!	Welcome back to the &quot;dog eat dog&quot; world of dog breeding and shows, where Melanie Travis and her Aunt Peg are once again embroiled in a mystery. This time, in Dog Eat Dog, a member of Peg's kennel club is murdered shortly after a meeting, and Melanie is compelled to find the killer despite the fact that she is not a member of the club herself. <br />This, however, is not the only thing &quot;eating&quot; at Melanie: the ex-husband is back in town and anxious to take up where he left off with Melanie's son, five-year-old Davey, even though the two haven't seen each other in four years and two months. Needless to say, the reunion does very little for Melanie's escalating relationship with Poodle breeder Sam Driver, particularly when the former hubby drops hints of taking Davey back to Texas.<br />Discoveries of gossip and blackmail are the focus of Dog Eat Dog, which is a good followup story to Underdog. A light, sometimes humorous read, this is a recommended &quot;cozy&quot;.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R2LBX0WTVG98B	0356178978	88602910	Hot Toddy: The true story of Hollywood's most sensational murder	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Slightly biased but good retelling of mystery	Hot Toddy concerns the possible murder of a popular 1930s comedienne, Thelma Todd. &quot;Toddy&quot; was a hot property at Hal Roach Studios and a big box office draw, having co-starring with the likes of ZaSu Pitts and The Marx Brothers in her prime. In complete contrast with her onscreen roles, however, Toddy's life was quite unhappy. She had a tendency to attach herself to loser boyfriends, she felt the comedy roles constantly foisted upon her were beneath her talents, and her mother made Mama Rose in Gypsy look like a simpering housewife.<br />When Toddy was found dead in her car one December night in 1935, the story was national news. Rumors of suicide, murder by Lucky Luciano's mob or any of a string of disgruntled lovers swirled around Tinsel Town, but due to a botched investigation by the LAPD, Toddy's was ruled an accidental death. The fact that she drank heavily and often passed out in her car after a binge supported this conclusion.<br />Andy Edmonds, after seven years of research, believes differently, and in Hot Toddy we are treated to his theories on Toddy's death (read: murder), a story in which mobsters figure prominently in using Toddy and her connections to an LA restaurant bearing her name to make headway in California. Whether or not any of it is true I haven't completely decided for myself, though Edmonds assures us by citing anonymous sources present during Toddy's last hours it is. Of course, we really have no way of knowing beyond taking Edmonds's words as truth.<br />Though I found the overall story behind Hot Toddy compelling, I must say the writing was a bit dry; imagined dialogue between Toddy and others, Luciano and pals gets annoying after a while.<br />As far as I know, this is only book-length interpration of Toddy's life and death: not exactly a title that does the great actress justice, but Hollywood buffs will be grateful for its existence because it does help keep a great actress like Thelma Todd in memory.	2000-12-04
US	53079398	R2JQVMDN6SEOZ6	0671729470	13745369	Petals on the Wind	Books	1	9	13	N	N	Disturbing	Petals is an adequate sequel to Flowers in the Attic, and given that the first book is not exactly a classic of contemporary literture, this doesn't say much. In a word, this book is disturbing.<br />Hardened by her experience in the attic, Cathy is hell-bent on revenge. She wants her mother to pay for her brother's death (murder?), the pyschological problems her sister suffers, and the consequences the experience has had on her and her older brother, who wants to be more than a brother to Cathy. The only way Cathy seeks to achieve this goal is become a complete trollop, which to me makes her character the least sympathetic in the book.<br />Cathy is a user. She abuses the kindness of the gentleman who takes in her family after their escape, she uses Julian to forward her dancing career, and she uses her mother's current husband as a tool for revenge. Looking back after reading this novel, I realize Ms. Andrews could have used this story to create a truly psychological work of horror and revenge. For example, how Cathy torments her mother with letters is the only fascinating thing about the book. Petals might have made for a better story had Cathy sought her revenge in this manner, slowly driving her mother insane. Instead, Ms. Andrews goes for sensationalism, and lots of needless sex.<br />Cathy's promiscuity is disturbing. The incestuous overtones are disturbing. The climax with the destruction of Foxworth Hall is silly and melodramatic. The only character I liked in this book was Paul's mute maid, who might have served as a good moral compass for Cathy. It's a shame Ms. Andrews did not develop her character better.	2000-12-03
US	53079398	R15P1AM1HLU94Y	0671729489	138563555	Seeds of Yesterday (Dollanganger)	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Recycled plots, characters, etc.	The Foxworths circle of life is now completed, with a new mansion and a new monster at the helm. Bart, for all the therapy given him following Thorns is now the master of a duplicate Foxworth Hall, while his &quot;parents&quot;, adoptive sister and brother's family have become permanent houseguests. <br />Unfortunately, what we're stuck with is a lot of recycling. The long lost Uncle Joel appears to be a less manaical version of John Amos from thorns, Cindy shows all the promiscuity of her adoptive mother without the revenge angle, and Bart is just a hypocritical jerk who expects everyone to tow his line, even though he does not practice what he preaches. Even the main plot of Flowers is echoed here: Cathy and Chris are stuck in the mansion with nowhere to go because of various circumstances.<br />There is even a new set of twins Cathy mistakes for her dead siblings, and Chris meets the same fate as his father. The finale  of the book, particularly Bart's sudden transformation, is unbelievable and trite. I realize many of Andrews's fans hail these books as an enduring love story between Cathy and Chris, but I find the whole notion disturbing. Had the two kept their relationship as brother and sister (which is how it should have been) I might have been more sympathetic. But their &quot;marriage&quot; disturbed me greatly.	2000-12-03
US	53079398	R2EHYYDRAX73V8	0671729454	447092407	If There Be Thorns	Books	1	17	27	N	N	The worst of the lot	First, even though I find Cathy's character less sympathetic with each page, I believe it was a mistake to switch the narration of the series to her sons. Jory comes off as bland in this story, serving only as the moral foil while his brother raises Hell. Bart is just plain disturbed, it looks that way even before the mysterious Corrine Foxworth appears on the scene, and I suppose the readers are led to believe this character flaw is a direct consequence of Cathy and Chris's incestuous &quot;marriage&quot;.<br />Thorns is probably the least believable of the series. I find it baffling that it took nearly the entire book for Chris and Cathy to discover that their elderly neighbor was really their mother. Why wouldn't Chris, who had always had sympathy for his mother, have tried to track her down following her release from the mental institution? At least keep tabs on her in case this happened? Why would Corrine favor Bart more than Jory, aside from that fact that Bart was her husband's child too. They are both her grandsons, why play favorites?<br />The John Amos character was ridiculous, a stereotypical rehashing of the grandparents in Flowers, and his slant on helping Bart become the 'new Malcolm' was absurd.	2000-12-03
US	53079398	RIZ7Z02JAZDYE	0671729411	173166968	Flowers in the Attic (Dollanganger)	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Best of the series, and that's not saying much!	Back in junior high school (15 years ago), more often than not one would see a girl toting a VC Andrews paperback along with her schoolbooks. Ever since I was made aware of her existence I managed to avoid her titles because I just was not into &quot;horror fiction&quot;. Recently, though, I moved to Hampton Roads, which encompasses VC's hometown of Portsmouth, and what can I say: I was curious to know exactly what it was that had so many young women hooked all those years ago.<br />The core of the story, I admit, has some appeal. Four children, devestated at the loss of their father, are promised hope and a future of luxury when their mother reveals she has wealthy relatives. So eager are the children for this lifestyle that they willingly subject themselves to being isolated in a forbidding wing of a lonely mansion, away from curious eyes, while their mother tries to reconcile with her monster of a father before his pending death. <br />Here is the true horror of the story: the mother's good faith slowly peels away to reveal a woman consumed by greed who distances herself from her children, leaving them to the mercy of a disapproving grandmother and ill nutrition while she lives the life of luxury she promised them. The younger children are stunted in growth, while the older children are ultimately pressed into a relationship the grandmother constantly lambasts. The mother, depending on the wealth, goes so far as to commit an unspeakable deed.<br />Abuse and neglect are the focus of this horror story, rather than blood and gore. This is a story that should make you more angry than scared. I've heard FitA was based upon a true story, but I have yet to find any information substantiating this claim. Either way, I've satisifed my curiosity of Ms. Andrews by reading the four books of this series (the only series I believe she wrote on her own), and can say undoubtably this is the best one, though Cathy's narrative is at times immature. I don't expect I'll read any other titles.	2000-12-03
US	53079398	R1MINN22UJED29	0899667260	444979553	Auntie Mame	Books	3	5	14	N	N	A disappointment	I must admit I was left with a bad taste in my mouth after reading the book that inspired one of my favorite movies. I adore the Rosalind Russell film version of Auntie Mame, and was surprised to learn the story was first a novel and not the musical, so naturally I got a copy. Having read it, I find I still prefer the film incarnations of Dennis's characters.<br />The mood seems a bit darker in the book than in the film. Mame, in the book, seemed like a rough draft of the wonderful persona Russell exuded on film; book Mame came off as more scatterbrained and sometimes mean. I did not find the narrator (Dennis) all that likeable either, and Pegeen in the book appeared to me to be a nag at the end. The whimsical exchange between Mame and the Upsons is also missing something in the book version.<br />Stick with the movie; I believe it achieved more the story.	2000-12-01
US	53079398	R4B3YXSUZO8TU	0847815641	852848073	Death by Chocolate: The Last Word on a Consuming Passion	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great alternative if you can't go to the Trellis	Lucky me, I'm an hour away from Marcel's restaurant in Williamsburg, so I've had the pleasure of enjoying some of the delicious treats in this book. Those I have made on my own (the cookies, the date cake) turned out terrific -- the recipes are easy to follow and the pictures just make your mouth water. This is a great book to have if you like to bake for special occasions, or if you just like having something chocolate around the house.	2000-11-30
US	53079398	R2UTG77EE9PGEL	1576010015	489875818	Sandy Dennis: A Personal Memoir	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A touching memoir	Published on what would have been Dennis's sixtieth birthday, A Personal Memoir is not what one would expect in era of &quot;kiss-and-tell&quot; tomes from the Hollywod elite. There are no tired lists of professional accolades or conquered lovers famous and infamous, no gossipy prattle. In fact, the particulars of Dennis's chosen profession are rarely mentioned at all in this 77-page memoir, we are instead introduced to Sandy Dennis the person--a person whose life was filled with colors, unbridled compassion and many, many cats. <br />In a scrapbook of prose--written, it appears, in fits and spurts when the muse allowed it--Dennis &quot;recalls emotions...images&quot; from her first trek at three years to the local store for jawbreakers to morning walks in the woods (&quot;I like this kind of grey suspended morning. It will be, I think, a soft washed-out day&quot;). Snippets of memory come alive in Dennis's vivid words--sticky baby fingers clutching a shaggy dog, fragrant New England foliage, fading images of a father seldom seen due to work and war. This Sandy Dennis, not necessarily the Sandy Dennis we see flickering in a grainy black-and-white film, is the one we are meant to remember.<br />On screen, Sandy Dennis was powerful, and that power transfers beautifully to her own life. A Personal Memoir is uniquely poetic, and a very thoughtful read.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	R4OEL7FHC6GPD	1576010538	634867131	There's No Place Like Home for the Holidays	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great holiday gift idea!	This book is a light, entertaining hodgepodge of holiday poetry, short stories, recipes, and brief explosions of memory related by writers ranging from 3 to 93 years (members of the Papier Mache staff also contributed, no doubt lending a warm &quot;family&quot; feel to the project). Not necessarily limited to yarns of Christmas reunions, No Place covers Thanksgiving and Jewish High Holiday get-togethers--many humorous and predictably disasterous, other poignant and serious. SuzAnne C. Cole's &quot;The One-Sweet-Potato Holiday&quot; chronicle one couple's first holiday dinner in an empty nest, while another favorite of mine, &quot;If Diamonds Grew on Orange Trees&quot; by Pamela Ditchoff, reveals the labor of love behind a simple dessert made once a year (Ditchoff even provides the recipe).<br />The verse ranges from sing-song rhyme (Charlotte A. Cote's &quot;Eternal Optimist&quot;, a saga of a whirlwind Christmas vacation, could have been a children's book) to clipped freestyle verse. Almost resembling a holiday family reunion, No Place has the look of being thrown together--frenetic, yet in the end very much appreciated. Buy one as a gift, or for yourself to read on the plane trip home.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	R16VHVYIWKXILN	0761506411	189926740	writers.net: Every Writer's Essential Guide to Online Resources and Opportunities (Prima writing guides)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good resource for writers new to the Internet	Writers.net is probably the most &quot;reader-friendly&quot; of all the specialized Internet guides on the market; each of the nineteen chapters of Writers.net is devoted to a particular genre of writing. Writers of mysteries, romances, science fiction, screenplays, and other styles need not burrow through endless pages to get to the sections that interest them most--each chapter is well-structured and organized to give the writer the resources s/he needs before logging onto the Internet and searching blindly for a paying e-publication or research database. <br />Gach catalogs URLs by the gigabyte, offering links to poetry and fiction mega-link lists, authors' and agents' homepages, research resources, and more. Most URLs listed are followed by a brief description of the site, while some chapters have the look of a printed &quot;bookmark&quot; file from a writer's web browser. <br />All writers will especially want to study the book's final chapter, which is devoted to Internet censorship and copyright issues, a sticky subject for writers on and off the computer. URLs and descriptions of the more affluent writers' unions and leagues are profiled here, as is information essential to any writer confused about her/his rights.<br />As with any printed directory of Websites, there is no guarantee that every URL listed in Gach's book will still be valid once you bring Writers.net home from the bookstore (this book is three years old, mind you). To combat the ever-changing climate of the Internet, Gach maintains a Webpage of book updates on his personal homepage, where one may find additions, URL changes, and even a sample chapter from the book.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	RXYELGLKLBHOZ	0671894455	825640350	Forrest Gump (Movie Tie in)	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Didn't like the book OR the movie	I thought Gump the movie was 3 hours of mindless schmaltz, but after reading the book I can understand why Zemeckis didn't stay true to Groom's novel. Book Gump just isn't likable at all. Instead of an oafish, lovable doofus who spouts memorable catchphrases we have a pot-smoking, even dimmer doofus whose adventures are even more ludicrous than those shown in the film (the one with Raquel Welch was just too much).<br />Jenny comes off even worse in the book, if that's possible, and Forrest's narration gets irritating after a while. People either love the movie and hate the book or vice-versa, but I just didn't like either of them.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	R1ER0INUPJXHXH	0671002481	833502459	The First Wives Club Movie Tie In	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Don't expect the movie	Where the film adaptation of The First Wives Club was witty and made for fluffy entertainment and a showcase for three good actresses, the book is a 180 degree turn. For example, the wisecracking lesbian daughter of Diane Keaton's character is, in the book, a younger girl with Down's Syndrome, and the husband/father is far crueller than the one portrayed in the film. The entire subplot involving the husband of the friend who committed suicide is omitted from the film entirely.<br />The book is darker, as is the humor. One could tend to agree with another reviewer that The First Wives' Club comes off as a treatise on man-bashing; I believe Ms. Goldsmith had experienced a similar situation before writing the book, hence the inspiration. Nonetheless, I liked the book somewhat when I first read it; Goldsmith does display a good wit and can tell an interesting story. I read other works and believe this is still the best of the lot.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	R2M7S3I8MUJF4P	0679764844	582868083	Who in Hell...: A Guide to the Whole Damned Bunch	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Amusing encyclopedia of speculation	John Paul II once said that &quot;no man, not even Judas, can be said with certainty to be [in Hell].&quot;<br />It is apparant, however, that humor writers Sean Kelly and Rosemary Rogers may not be privy to Hell's residential directories, but they have certainly made the speculation all the more interesting with their joint effort Who in Hell... : a Guide to the Whole Damned Bunch. This alphabetized directory offers entries on history's better-known adulterers, heretics, thieves, tyrants, and general nasty folk, as evidenced from text in The Bible, Dante's Inferno, and various mythological sources.<br />If you are convinced that the more-than-sunny side of the afterlife is your destination, you will discover that, according to Kelly and Rogers, you may be in good (?) company. Listed with the sin (ranging from the Seven Deadly ones to others just as bad) that likely brought them to Hell, many expected names are included. There is Judas Iscariot (deicide, treason), Adolf Hitler (suicide, though that seems to be the least of his deeds), David Koresh (blasphemy), and Aleister Crowley (fraud).<br />Mind you, also, that Hell is an equal-opportunity place, where one will discover Protestant religious leaders (John Knox, Henry VIII of England), popes (Leo X, Sergius III), the occasional entertainer (Mae West, who sealed her doom by leading a life of lust), and even an honorary resident (Henry Kissinger, who, though still alive, leads the authors to believed that he reserved a spot in Hell for certain reasons).<br />Who in Hell..., though a book that does prompt some serious thoughts about the next life, is a book to be taken lightly with good humor, as well a simple guide on what not to do if one desires salvation.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	RZZ3RGASQHPH5	0929005333	94625676	Sweet Secrets: Stories of Menstruation	Books	4	11	11	N	N	I wish this book was around when I was 13	Sex education teachers O'Grady and Wansbrough have produced an ideal gift for young girls preparing to bloom into womanhood, a book that is as entertaining as it is informative.<br />Sweet Secrets is about menstruation. Your cycle, your period, your curse, your monthly visitor, your Aunt Flo...whatever phrase you use, you know what it is and unless with few medical exceptions, every girl is going to get it whether she likes it or not. Sweet Secrets could be considered a technical manual for a girl growing up: basic terminology is introduced, and behaviors such as PMS are explained.<br />What endeared me to this title, however, was the positive approach O'Grady and Wansbrough take to the monthly event that annoys me when it arrives and worries me when it doesn't. First menstruation is a &quot;sweet secret&quot; because it is a girl's own private advancement into adulthood, a rite of passage celebrated in many cultures. An accompanying mini-anthology of essays by women and teenagers emphasizes the poignancy of growing into womanhood while offering sympathy and encouragement.<br />If you have daughter fast approaching her teens and feel apphrensive about explaining to her the facts of life, let this book be a guide for the both of you, a &quot;sweet secret&quot; to share.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	RES5F94VL528J	1880684470	172304783	The Stars, The Earth, The River: Short Stories by Le Minh Khue (Voices from Vietnam)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Simply wonderful	Curbstone Press, a non-profit organization dedicated to providing literature reflecting social issues (with strong emphasis on foreign cultures), has seen fit to translate a collection of stories that introduces to us another view of life in Vietnam, life as experienced from the nameless thousands who endured the war many of us knew only from nightly news reports. <br />The Stars, The Earth, The River is a compilation of fourteen stories written by Vietnamese journalist-turned-editor Le Minh Khue, and is a highly recommeded read for anyone interested in Oriental life and literature.<br />In these stories, Vietnam is a place where a woman turning forty is considered old and a person with only a thousand American dollars in his/her pocket is called a &quot;millionaire.&quot; Khue's stories convey many themes with a touch of black humor: in &quot;Scenes from an Alley,&quot; greed plays a major factor in the life of a married couple who learn of a woman receiving a grand payoff from an American when he accidentally kills the woman's daughter, then try to place their aging father in the American's path, hoping lightning will strike twice. &quot;The Almighty Dollar&quot; is a wonderfully satirical tale of a large dysfunctional family worthy of &quot;The Ricki Lake Show.&quot; Competition for custody of a mentally disabled brother is triggered by love...of money.<br />&quot;Tony D&quot; mystifies as the alleged &quot;ghost&quot; of a dead American soldier comes to haunt the old man who intends to sell his bones for profit, and &quot;A Small Tragedy&quot; presents forbidden love at its most disturbing. The best story of the fourteen, however, would have to be Khue's first, &quot;The Distant Stars,&quot; written when Khue was only nineteen. The stars in question are three young girls who comprise the Ground Reconnaissance Team. Their mission: to measure holes in the ground left by bombs and determine how much dirt is needed to replenish the earth. Amid exploding ammunition and the stench of death, these girls perform their tasks, all the while sharing their dreams of marrying rich and flirting carelessly with interested soldiers. You want to laugh at the antics of these girls, yet you cannot help but have pity. It is the most gripping of the stories in this book, and truly amazing that a mind so young could concoct such a tale.<br />The Stars, The Earth, The River is the first installment in Curbstone's Voices from Vietnam series of contemporary fiction edited by Le Minh Khue, Ho Anh Thai, and Wayne Karlin. If Khue's collection is any indication, this looks to be a very promising series of books.	2000-11-29
US	53079398	R2ILM44KH6KDB6	0964631636	625293098	House of Gold	Books	4	7	7	N	N	It could've happened	When I first read this book I admit it frightened me. The book was published during the height of global Y2K anxiety and its basic story -- where various characters struggle to survive in a post-meltdown world with only their Faith to protect them -- might have actually been a premonition of things to come. In reading of Buzz's fight, for example, to return to his family in a world turned suddenly savage without the luxuries we take for granted, was especially heartbreaking. <br />Now, with the mental anguish past, I think back on this book and remember how real the story and characters were to me. In particular I sympathized with Ellie's pain as she struggled to hold fast to her Faith despite her inability to have children, something I do often. Despite the dissipation of our Y2K fears, House of Gold should remain a relevant book for our times. More than just a survival tale, it deals with issues important to us as Catholics, such as procreation and keeping the Faith in a faithless society. Besides, who knows when the light will truly go out?	2000-11-28
US	53079398	R2RNLYXUVQMZRT	0895554518	446886190	The Unicorn in the Sanctuary: The Impact of the New Age on the Catholic Church	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Informative survey of New Age infiltration in the Church	Some people might think Unicorn in the Sanctuary could qualify as a horror book, for all the information about Catholic dissidents and others trying to incorporate New Age sentiment in the Church. Alas, this is all too real (I've seen it myself in churches I used to attend), and England does a satisfactory job of detailing various movements (ennegrams, visualization, and non-Christian Eastern thought) trying to infiltrate the Church parish by parish. <br />The only thing that bothered me, as mentioned elsewhere here, was the reference to Dave Hunt's work. Mr. Hunt is rabidly anti-Catholic, and it bothered me to see his works were included in the bibliography of a Catholic book. I'm guessing Fr. Mitch Pacwa's books were not out at the time England was researching this one.	2000-11-28
US	53079398	R15QWYWXD0IMYO	188895289X	634890767	Dressed to Die (Lindsay Chamberlain Mysteries)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Another triumph for Lindsay	Lindsay Chamberlain never invites danger into her life; it just happens upon her frequently like an unwanted guest. In this tale Lindsay is in danger...this time of losing her job at the University of Georgia's Archaeology Department due to a merger with another department. If that were not enough to worry her, a cache of priceless artifacts delivered to her by her father is stolen, and all eyes are on Lindsay. Lindsay also becomes involved in the murder case of a long-missing UGA professor whose skeleton is recently found? Friends and strangers linked to Lindsay are either injured or killed trying to help, and Lindsay must put together all of the strewn puzzle pieces before she is next on the hit list.<br />I have enjoyed Beverly Connor's series for many years; Lindsay Chamberlain is one of the most original and dynamic sleuths to have been created in recent years, and Dressed to Die is well worth the cover price.	2000-10-10
US	53079398	RFQXDW45I6AL9	080411899X	379503113	Saving Death (Sister Cecile Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	I love Sister Cecile	Winona Sullivan hooked me with A Sudden Death at the Norfolk Cafe, and kept me interested as Cecile and the nuns headed south. I enjoyed Saving Death in particular because this novel provided some backstory about Cecile's youth and her relationship with Paul - though it was not important to the meat of the mystery, I liked it nonetheless. I'm comfortable with these characters and I enjoyed learning more about them.<br />Cecile's assignment is to solve a twenty-year-old murder where many of the people involved are either dead or unwilling to talk. Her client, unknown to her, was the man wrongly convicted of the crime, and though he changes his mind at one point Cecile is determined to find closure to this case, before the true killer gets to her first. All in all an enjoyable read.	2000-10-10
US	53079398	R39YU4WGMRZQK9	0425174689	573290210	Death on a Silver Tray: A Beau Brummell Mystery (Beau Brummell Mysteries)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Go, Beau!	I've discovered a new series of mysteries to enjoy, assuming that Ms. Stevens will indeed continue giving us more adventures of Brummell. Her portrayal of Mr. Brummell is impeccable and at times amusing -- that he values his properly starched crevats more than his own life when hunting down a killer is nothing short of hiliarious. I can actually imagine the real Mr. Brummell evoking the same sentiment.<br />I used to read Regency romances when I was younger, but thanks to Ms. Stevens I can now enjoy Regency mysteries. Death on a Silver Tray is well-written and researched (in terms of portraying George III's England), and Mr. Brummell's narration makes for an easy, fun read.	2000-10-10
US	53079398	RU9LV1KR4BYP8	1581128614	554824059	BJ: A Supernatural Horror Story	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good story, typos put me off some	Kimile Aczon knows which buttons to push to project feelings of terror and suspense, and she does this well in BJ. The characterization and dialogue in the book is real, especially as each character is introduced: it was easy to understand the depth of pain Donald Hemingway and Wilda Elvers, for example, had harbored over the years and how their own demons tried to take advantage of these weaknesses and attempt to destroy them. There is a good play between good and evil in this story. <br />This said, however, I must point out a few things: 1) there are a few instances of explicit sexual scenes, which I usually gloss over when reading (I'm quite the prude these days), so bear this in mind before you hand this book to a minor; 2) one thing that nearly kept me from enjoying the book was the number of typographical errors, as well as the occasional spelling error (a restaurant, for example, is described in the book as &quot;sheik&quot; instead of &quot;chic.&quot;) I imagine Upublish.com needs to check and recheck before they go to press.	2000-10-10
US	53079398	R3IJEICGWFLN0	0515093556	626534170	Belinda	Books	1	12	18	N	N	Not Anne's best work	I love Anne's vampire novels (well, three of them anyway), and I've found  her other books to vary in quality. Belinda ranks toward the bottom of the  spectrum -- it's easy to tell it's one of her early works. I didn't find  the Belinda character realistic at all; I suppose when writing fiction  authors often try to convey a &quot;fantasy self&quot;, someone worldly yet  naive and beautiful. Perhaps Belinda is what Anne wanted to be once. She  seems just too perfect to exist.<br />The romance between her and Jeremy I  also found implausible, not to mention a bit unnerving given the age  difference.<br />Read The Mummy, Feast of all Saints, and the first three  Vampire books for Anne's best work. Skip this one.	2000-09-13
US	53079398	R3P6IQC1ILC5I3	0002311240	321990786	Cover-up story	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A nice day-long read for &quot;cozy&quot; fans	I discovered this title by accident, but would recommend it to anyone who  likes the &quot;cozy&quot; British-style of mystery story-telling. Doug  Perkins, a frustrated PR man in 70s London, is trying to save his sinking  PR firm by representing an American &quot;hillbilly&quot; singing/comedy  act, Black Bart and the Troupe, abroad. He desperately needs their money to  stay afloat, but along with the fees he must also bear the brunt of their  constant criticism.<br />Maw, the ultimate stage mother who makes  &quot;Gypsy&quot;'s Mama Rose seem retiring, insists on bringing her  daughter to the forefront of the act, while Bart thinks he is the true  star. Maw's &quot;accidental&quot; death stalls the troupe's UK debut, but  when the show does go on Doug knows the star is also a killer.<br />The  mystery part -- who killed Maw -- is quite easy to solve, but the amusing  narrative told from Doug's POV makes this easy to forgive.	2000-09-13
US	53079398	R2SC6C7DPSDJ0U	0967360706	288181946	The Last Fisherman: A Novel of the Last Pope, the Antichrist and the End of the Age	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good end-times story from a Catholic perspective	I've never been a fan of apocalyptic fiction because nine times out of ten the stories are told from either an evangelical or a Marian apparition  perspective. Saying this, it is refreshing to read Randy's novel because it  is biblical AND Catholic. The reader truly feels for Brendan as he  struggles to keep the remnants of the Church faithful to Christ, and the  author's views on abortion are strongly conveyed throughout the story. I  only wish the story had been longer.	2000-08-16
US	53079398	R20IOU2XWL4WM1	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fans won't be disappointed	I can say it was well worth the wait for the latest chapter in the Harry Potter series, though I was so eager to find out what happened that I read the book in three days! The story and action are that compelling.<br />Not to  give too much of the story away to those who haven't read it yet, I will  say that Rowling's writing is very vivid and draws the reader into the  lives of the Hogwarts fourth-year students. Her description of the  Quidditch World Cup, for example, is quite stunning...as if Rowling had  attended one herself. The mystery of Voldemort's connections at Hogwarts  once again threw me off track -- I had picked one character to be the  baddie and it turned out to be someone else. I imagine other Harry fans  will be equally surprised to see how this story unfolds.<br />True to her  word, this installment does have a darker tone, as tensions between Harry  and friends come into play, particularly between Ron and Hermione. One  wonders if Rowling plans on pairing the two in the future.<br />The one thing  that doesn't make me happy is that I read the book so quickly and I don't  know when Book 5 is due. Hurry up, JK!	2000-07-11
US	53079398	R24XE2YCN6GVDS	096633972X	772692817	Footprints in the Butter: An Ingrid Beaumont Mystery Co-Starring Hitchcock the Dog	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Disappointing effort from an otherwise good author	I enjoyed Ms. Dietz's Beat Up a Cookie and eagerly read this title, only to be disappointed by a story and writing I thought lackluster compared to the other title. I thought it clever to include a supporting player from the other book (Lt. Miller), thus connecting the two series, but I'm sorry  to say this book did not enthrall me. I thought some of the dialogue silly  and unbelievable at times, and the relationship between Ingrid and her  boyfriend odd. <br />Maybe it's just me, but I found it strange that a former  couple who had not seen each other in years could resume a sexual  relationship like nothing had happened. Also, I would like to have seen  more of Hitchcock the dog. The &quot;co-starring&quot; line on the book  cover misled me a bit -- I was expecting something along the lines of Rita  Mae's Mrs. Murphy stories where the pets have a larger role in the  mystery.<br />I would recommend to anyone interested in reading Ms. Dietz to  read her Ellie Bernstein mysteries. They are well-written.	2000-06-05
US	53079398	R3LNFVZ9MAKG6C	0345428188	143369178	Outfoxed	Books	3	31	35	N	N	Too many talking animals	I love Rita Mae, I've read just about everything she's written, and I looked forward to this mystery which did not feature Mrs. Murphy (I thought it would be a nice change of pace for me).<br />Well, you could say Mrs.  Murphy is there, in spirit anyway. In Outfoxed were are treated to talking  foxhounds, cats, horses, owls, foxes, etc., all of whom have rather high  opinions of themselves. To bill this novel as a mystery would be misleading  as well, as the mystery doesn't happen until after the reader has plowed  through nearly 1/2 book, which actually provides a detailed look at  foxhunting.<br />I've never been foxhunting, but thanks to RMB I have a better  picture of it. One thing I found interesting is that Sister Arnold appeared  to be more upset with the murder of an animal than with the human being  found dead. Like other reviewers, I do wonder if this novel has thinly  veiled autobiographical tones.<br />I would recommend this book to die-hard  RMB fans. I imagine others might get a headache from the chattering forest  of four-footed folk.	2000-06-05
US	53079398	RM7JXU8DDULDO	0312094086	51305811	A Vow of Sanctity	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Light on mystery, heavy on drama	This is the first Sister Joan mystery I have read, and it likely won't be the last. It appeared to me, however, that the meat of the mystery story took a backseat to other issues, namely Catholic/Protestant relations in a  small Scottish town and how Sister Joan got along with various townspeople  and the monks of a nearby monastery. The issue of the legendary &quot;Black  Morag&quot; was, I thought, a bit silly, but necessary to introduce the  clandestine romance between two young people, which the Sister Joan  eventually discovers.<br />As a novel, &quot;Sanctity&quot; is a good read and  does offer enough suspenseful action to keep a mystery fan occupied.	2000-06-05
US	53079398	R2EEVWLBH5LVII	0553378260	261442262	Rita Will: Memoir of a Literary Rabble-Rouser	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Few surprises, her novels are just as autobiographical	If you, too, are a fan Rita's, you will find few surprises in Rita Will. Much of what I read was fictionalized already in Rubyfruit Jungle and Rita's three Juts and Wheezy novels (characters based on Rita's dueling  mother and maternal aunt). There is little, if any, information on Rita the  writer and numerous pages of Rita the Daughter and Niece, Rita the  Girlfriend (featuring details on relationships with Martina Navritalova  and--surprise here--Fannie Flagg), and Rita the Animal Lover. <br />At best,  it is a fast-paced read, but I prefer her fiction.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	RI7A7X2H05DD7	0688160980	863921301	The Last Party: Studio 54, Disco, And The Culture Of The Night	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Stale history of the wild nightclub 54	I admit it was the subject matter that prompted me to pick up this book, but I was disappointed. If anything, The Last Party is a much better chronicle of 54's history than that Michael Myers film, but it is  essentially a slow-moving story.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R33UXDDAWJ2TN	1880684519	109525662	First Love & Look for My Obituary: Two Novellas by Elena Garro	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Two very intriguing stories of love and loss	The late Elena Garro, whose reputation in her native Mexico was nothing short of brilliant, presents in this brief collection (both novellas are translated by David Unger) two very unconventional love stories. In First  Love, the love in question is a German prisoner of war in post-WWII France,  who befriends mother and daughter tourists amid the disapproval of the  local folk. Trapped in an unhappy marriage and thankful for the break from  domestic life, mother Barbara soon cannot deny her attraction to the  soldier while her daughter (also named Barbara) feels an infatuation for  the same man which is the catalyst for her growth into a mature young  woman.<br />Look For My Obituary is not as straightforward a tale as its  predecessor. This story tells of a young husband and father, unhappy in an  arranged marriage, whose passion is awakened by a beautiful, mysterious  stranger. With relentless determination he pursues this woman, though is  careful not to cause scandal within his own loveless union, until his  clandestine meetings with his love end with her &quot;death&quot;--her  printed obituary is really an announcement of her own arranged  marriage.<br />Though a brief look into one aspect of Latin American life,  First Love &amp; Look for My Obituary offers powerful sociological  commentary and is evidence of Garro's own concern for the mistreatment of  women in her culture. Garro writes with an eloquence accented with her  Mexican heritage, yet both stories are not too immersed as to be confusing  to those unfamiliar with the culture. Those with an interest in  multicultural literature will find this volume to be a good primer.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	RSFIILAE54RDV	0553379615	160413158	Into the Forest	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Shades of the future?	I could almost call this a horror novel, though there are only two brief instances of violence throughout the story. Into the Forest is horror at a different level, the terror of being left isolated with no way of knowing  if the rest of the country is rebuilding or if your friends and family are  still alive. <br />Granted, we survived the so-called Y2K hysteria, and  thankfully this is a work of fiction. Jean Hegland paints a  near-apocalyptic picture of depravity, and how two sisters manage to stay  together in spite of not being able to flip on a lightswitch or microwave a  burrito as they could in the past, when they could still be children with  dreams instead of being thrust into a nightmare where Nell (the narrator)  must decide how long to keep a used tea bag before throwing it away. A  gripping story.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R3D96952B1C5FS	1572972920	278439284	Dorothy Dandridge	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Read the book before you see the movie	Donald Bogle certainly did his homework in researching the forty-one years of one of Black America's first screen goddesses. Interviews with fellow actors, close friends and even people minutely involved in Dorothy's meager  Cleveland childhood provide the backbone for this enthusiastic and  informative portrait. <br />Bogle's story takes us through young Dorothy's  first steps in show business with sister Vivian in a vaudevillian act  called the Wonder Girls, which played to delighted black audiences packed  in Baptist churches and other small venues. Pressed on by her starstruck  yet cold mother, Ruby (an actress in her own right), the act moved to  Hollywood and evolved into the singing Dandridge Sisters, securing chorus  and bit parts in the rare all-black musicals produced during the  1930s-1940s. <br />Following a string of bit roles in motion pictures, her  celebrity reached an apex in this country with the release of Carmen Jones,  and all-black version of Bizet's Carmen. For her performance, Dorothy made  history by becoming the first black actress to win an Academy Award  nomination for Best Actress. Though such clout won her the admiration of  her peers (and the love of the film's director), the nomination should have  won her a better choice of film roles. As Bogle reveals, even the glitter  of Oscar gold could not change Dorothy's skin color; pitting a black love  interest with an A-list white actor in the 1950s was a risky venture, too  risky for film companies who wanted their products to turn profits,  particularly in the South. By no fault of her own, Dorothy could only watch  helplessly as her career, probably the only true constant in her life,  slowly declined.<br />I enjoyed this book very much, and I enjoyed watching  Bogle on A&amp;E's Biography episode on Dorothy. The movie with Halle Berry  is also a good companion to this biography, though I thought the portrayals  of Dorothy's mother tended to differ. Since the movie was based on anotherbook, I would be more inclined to read Bogle's account.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R1J2897M7UT2AL	0887307515	524481821	Secret Formula: How Brilliant Marketing and Relentless Salesmanship Made Coca-Cola the Best-Known Product in the World	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Coke is it, and so is this book	Secret Formula is a book for the business-minded and Coca-Cola-philes alike; the prose may appear a bit dry to the leisure reader (500 pages at semi-miniscule print in softcover), but bear in mind that Secret Formula is  pretty heavy reading. However, once you start reading about the first days  of Doc Pemberton and his special syrup and soda headache remedy you will be  hooked to this fascinating tale of Americana, right through to the late 70s  cola wars with Pepsi and the infamous &quot;New Coke&quot; debacle, from  which Coca-Cola survived unscathed. Allen details also the benefits reaped  by Atlanta thanks to former Coca-Cola president Robert Woodruff's many  philanthropic acts, as well as how the popular soda helped blur racial  lines in the South while trying to tackle less enthusiastic foreign  markets. Anyone with a interest in Southern history or marketing will want  to sample this Secret Formula.<br />I had the pleasure of meeting the author  when I lived in Atlanta. He came off as a genuinely nice man.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R3R8MP6QEJ0FC1	157502067X	430040730	Angel Country: Angelic Encounters: True Stories from Maine	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sweet collection of stories designed to enhance faith	For anyone who adamantly believes in the power of God and His helpers, or at least continues to have faith that acts of kindness are possible in a world overrun by violence and turmoil, Angel Country offers an outlet of  that faith and offers the theory that perhaps there is indeed a benefit to  prayer. One need not look to Maine to find angels, but as Biley believes,  it is not a bad place to start.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R3L9J49ZPJ2FEC	0767901592	958247132	Eat Me	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Sex and food...together again	As far as commercial erotica goes, journalist and scholar Linda Jaivin's debut novel Eat Me is a unique excursion into the world of sensual tastes. It's 9 1/2 Weeks in a supermarket, an uninhibited look into the joys of  calorie-laden, chocolate-coated ecstasy direct from the Land Down  Under.<br />Unlike the array of gothic, violent erotic fiction that seems to  be crowded shelves these days, Eat Me is upbeat, at time hilarious (a  letter-switching incident comes to mind) and baffling (you'll never watch  David Letterman the same way again, I guarantee it). Jaivin writes a  playful, sexy novel hotter than jalepeno and as smooth as French Silk pie.  Jaivin takes the eroticism of food to a new level with Eat Me and is  certain to leave many mouths watering.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R35VZXIU67QNAB	0385471874	406299863	What Falls Away	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Fascinating memoir of a fascinating life	Mia leaves her soul bare in this retelling of her brief life, it reads as if she were always the same age, having had to grow up quickly in large Hollywood family, coping with her parents' fame, her father's womanizing  and his sudden death. As for her remembrances of her marriages to Sinatra  and composer Andre Previn, she is gentle and appears to have no ill will;  she lets the reader know each man will always have a piece of her, and that  must make Sinatra's death all the more painful to her.<br />The chapters  regarding her life with Woody Allen are not for the squeamish -- Mia writes  frankly of Woody's disregard for her children (including the son they  shared) and his unnatural relationships with daughters Dylan and Soon-Yi.  Any instance of child abuse, regardless of whether or not the abuser is a  celebrity, is enough to make me sick, and despite what I think of Woody  Allen since reading this book, a part of me still wonders why it took so  long for Mia to finally discover what was happening to her children. Read  What Falls Away and decide for yourself if you want to see another Woody  Allen film again.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R2UOFQQ22AJ9NR	1576010007	555569413	Hungers Table: Women, Food & Politics	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delicious book of poetry	Hunger's Table continues a theme established by Laura Esqivel in Like Water for Chocolate : the relationship between a women and the food she prepares, serves, and eats. Unlike Esquivel, Randall conveys these  parallels through a collection of poems, most of which double as recipes,  some for delicious meals, others for life itself.<br />In the thirty-five  poems tucked inside the covers of Hunger's Table, Randall addresses how  food is more than nourishment for the body, it is also nourishment for the  mind and soul. The quantity and kinds of food eaten are often influenced by  various factors and events in our lives--family reunions are celebrated  around a bountiful table, a woman depressed about her love life (or lack  thereof) may comfort herself with a pint of Ben and Jerry's, etcetera.  Taking everyday situations as these, Randall creates a series of powerful,  beautiful poetry.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R3A0WD1QUNP7RB	0671003755	785191741	She's Come Undone	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great book for a long trip	I thought it amazing that a male author such as Lamb could capture so convincingly the voice of a troubled young girl and record it in a engrossing story of overcoming depression and self-depreciation to find  some degree of stability in life. Here is the story of Dolores (a name  which, appropriately here, means &quot;sorrow&quot;) Price, a chubby young  girl who grows into a more-than-chubby young woman who had endured every  physical and emotional pain imaginable. You name it, it happened to her.  Even a desperate search for happiness by stealing the former shadow of  another person's life proves to be a failure. Dolores finds only one  constant comfort in her life -- television. She's Come Undone chronicles  forty-plus years of this interesting character's life and of the people she  touches on the way.<br />I bought this book for a four-hour plane trip and it  held up well.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	RD1E73PTPGL2K	0820321753	453845667	Because I Remember Terror, Father, I Remember You	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Chilling story of child abuse	This is one book I sincerely wish did not have to be written or published, not because it happened, but because I wish something like this never had to happen. I had not heard of Sue William Silverman before picking up her  memoir, and the second I closed the covers together I wished that she did  not have to live the life she was forced to live. To have survived years of  torment and terror, of which Williamson has her own definitions, is truly a  testament to the author's will to maintain a normal life beyond the circle  of abuse.<br />Written to read like a novel, Because I Remember Terror is a  gripping history of abuse and power, and of the subsequent healing and  forgiveness. People with weak stomachs should be warned that Silverman does  not sugar-coat her childhood--her language, though vibrant and flowing, is  quite raw. Those fortunate to have never been sexually abused should read  this as an account of a terror that needs to be extinguished. Those who  have been abused will look to this book as representation of one woman's  survival.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R1IAX8544448IU	1883523176	113001207	Deadline for Murder: The Third Lindsay Gordon Mystery (Lindsay Gordon Mysteries Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Don't miss this deadline	Veteran mystery writer Val McDermid, in this third installment of the Lindsay Gordon series, presents with care an intense potboiler where, regardless of the outcome, emotions are bound to explode. If Sue Grafton's  Kinsey Millhone has a lesbian alter ego, Lindsay is it; her ability to keep  her cool and her focus, especially during instances of innuendo when alone  with her ex-love, is especially admirable.<br />Fans of the traditional  &quot;whodunit&quot; will enjoy this tale of passion and deception--in more  ways than one--and Lindsay's search to find the truth, even at the cost of  a friendship. A smooth pace in action and dialogue moves the reader quickly  through the 200-plus pages of Deadline for Murder, and keeps one entralled  until Lindsay does meet that deadline.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R3NQWFDEPORQA3	0385485999	142075462	Giving Away Simone	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Refreshing first-hand account of adoption	Reading Waldron's touching memoir, Giving Away Simone, one will find not a typical story of teen pregnancy and adoption, but the story of a woman who unravels a legacy of abandonment and subsequent emotional distress. Her  daughter Simone (renamed Rebecca by her adoptive parents), she learns later  in life, is the fifth generation of a line of women who have abandoned  their daughters. Knowing this gives a sharper perspective to Waldron's  story as she relates her own sanitary childhood and attempts to explain why  abandonment happens. <br />When Waldron writes of her parents, it is sad to  know that such a family existed without hugs and kisses and little things  that make a family whole. Most of Waldron's warmth is channeled instead to  anecdotes of her domineering grandmother Altie, a church matron who spent  her own years of adoptive motherhood both impressed with and perplexed by  Sara's peculiar nature. <br />The second stage of Giving Away Simone involves  Jan's reunion with Rebecca eleven years after mother gave daughter away.  Through touching narrative and tense, dramatic correspondence, Waldron  relates her &quot;reintegration&quot; into Rebecca's life and her  experiences in establishing a relationship with Rebecca without taking  anything away from the adoptive family (Waldron calls herself the  &quot;birthmother,&quot; which, she relates, does not always fulfill the  requirements of a true mother.) As expected, Waldron is sympathetic to  those who have given up children for adoption, and through baring her own  soul she proves that while there may be regrets, there need not be blame  when the welfare of a child is at stake.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R19D632CWJOWZN	0061098280	655181657	Marilu Henner's Total Health Makeover	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Good advice, should be applied to suit your needs	My husband snickered when he caught me reading this book. He's the type who doesn't believe &quot;celebrities&quot; should be offering health advice. I showed him the back cover and said I wanted to know how Marilu  got to look so good, so I could at least have a fighting chance.<br />I  haven't followed everything to the letter in this book, but I did give up  dairy and caffeine and started a steady exercise program, and used some  principles from Weight Watchers. I dropped 35 pounds! <br />I suppose the key  is reading this book and manipulating the suggestions so it suits your  needs. Not everyone has the same body, so not everyone should use an  identical program. What worked for Marilu might not have worked for me.  Improvise.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R56CZLKUZKL3V	0872490912	761120341	Charleston Ghosts	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Fun read for people interested in the paranormal	Written and first published almost forty years ago, Charleston Ghosts was the product of the late Martin's fervid interest in her hometown's history, particularly the tales of local hauntings and the circumstances that caused  the unearthly unrest as recounted over and again by other native  Charlestonians. These stories, tales of spurned love (a wealthy society  girl rejects love for money and pays the consquences) and rejection (a  house servant risks her heart and loses) are as colorful as the city  itself.<br />Pick up a copy of Charleston Ghosts if you are unable to visit  the city yet have an interest in Southern history and  &quot;otherworldly&quot; things. Martin's retellings of the city's more  known legends are fascinating to read, from the frightening &quot;Gray  Man&quot; of St. Philip's Episcopal Cemetery to the &quot;Whistling  Doctor&quot; who can still be heard--a century after his death! <br />If you  do happen to be in town, take a walking tour and get the book. You just may  meet a major character in one of Martin's tales.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R22V4V3BHL3AT1	1888952539	551603673	Questionable Remains (Lindsay Chamberlain Mysteries)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A great story	Athens, Georgia author Connor serves up another gripping tale in the second installment of the Lindsay Chamberlain mystery series. Still nursing an emotional scar or two following the events in A Rumor of Bone, Lindsay,  a top forensic archaeologist, is asked to investigate the mysterious deaths  of three adventurous cavers whose skeletal remains are found deep in the  bowels of a Tennessee cave called, appropriately enough, Hell's Slide. How  Lindsay is offered the mystery is in itself a fascinating story that  presents a story within the story, that of a centuries-dead conquistador  who aids the area Native Americans in a vendetta against their pillaging,  gold-greedy enemies.<br />Lindsay's keen eye for finding the truth among the  bones correctly identifies the late Spaniard, though her investigation into  the deaths of the cavers proves to be more dangerous. <br />I became  acquainted with Beverly Connor when I lived in Athens and can vouch for the  quality of suspense and writing. A great lady, and a great writer.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R23N0TS1HL03Z2	0553379453	657747742	Strong Women Stay Slim: Shed Fat Forever with the Extraordinary Power of Strength Training!	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Good ideas in the book, just not necessarily applicable to m	I did enjoy Strong Women because it made sense. Rather than focus on eating habits (though there are sections devoted to good nutrition and balanced diet), Dr. Nelson suggests a regular, low impact regimen of  strength training for women, with an emphasis on losing inches instead of  pounds. Just twenty minutes a day, three days a week is what the good  doctor prescribes, with additional exercise optional.<br />Did it work for me?  Not really. Though the exercise regimen did help tone my body, I did not  get any smaller. It took parts of this program, part of Weight Watchers,  and parts of Marilu Henner's book for me to see any results.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	RF1WVQEY2M17N	1883523222	288721439	Living at Night (Coming of Age Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Vivid story, would make a great movie	In a gripping, graphic debut novel, Mariana Romo-Carmona presents a vivid look into a young woman's life as an aid in a women's institution. Here the women are constantly sedated and monitored for unexpected incontinence, yet  are always treated with respect. Here living at night appears to be the  only defense for a Hispanic woman in white Connecticut, surrounded by  people who give her a sense of self-worth. Here is a story worth telling,  and worth reading.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R1B2I1P9CS2TXX	0385488998	908256249	Listening with My Heart	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A story of inspiration and faith that is truly sincere	Having Whitestone as our first hearing impaired Miss America, one would think, should have been true inspiration for this nation's legion of children with disabilities. Whitestone's memoir, Listening With My Heart,  shares these triumphs, but reveals also the stark realities this tiara  holds. Anyone who thinks this title nothing more than non-stop glamour and  make-up will be pleasantly surprised to learn of the more intense layers  underneath.<br />Despite the joys and benefits of being America's sweetheart,  and despite the impact Whitestone left following her year-long reign, there  was an equal amount of heartache and frustration, and while reading  Listening I found that just because one cannot hear the activity around  her, it doesn't make the pain less hurtful. In Listening, Whitestone  details her duties and the ensuing exhaustion, all the while keeping a  cheerful front so as not to disappoint anyone in her path. <br />Her positive  disposition, as felt throughout Listening, is credited to Whitestone's  solid faith in God. Whitestone's love of God carries her throughout her  career and is strongly felt in this memoir; she peppers each chapter with  encouraging quotes from many known people and from the Bible. For all the  uphill struggles she tackled (including living her Christian beliefs in a  society that does not necessarily embrace the same values), Whitestone's  enthusiasm is contagious, and her life-in-progress an inspiration.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	R1KUCPAKE9M36E	1878067826	18245745	If You Had a Family: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A touching story of a woman's search for family	Barbara Wilson paints a beautiful story of realization in &quot;If You Had a Family,&quot; a novel that clearly hits close to home (Wilson herself was raised in a Christian Scientist home, as was the family of the main  character). Cory's struggle to accept the past and painlessly integrate her  memories into her present is portrayed in a gentle and loving manner;  though nearing forty, Cory is still a child, still in need of a family and  feeling the effects of living alone in a world full of mothers, none of  them hers.<br />We sympathize also with Cory during her awkward attempts at  finding a surrogate outlet for the emotions that have been repressed within  her for decades. A blossoming relationship with activist lawyer Rosemary  Reardon (who is a good contrast character to Cory's--one of a brood of  Irish Catholic children, she is bubbly where Cory is blase) provides solace  for Cory, as does her acquaintance with her brother's children, who in a  sense are also hers.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	RL22UL8MLWOQ5	1883523184	139281578	The Activist's Daughter (Coming of Age Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Straightforward, honest story	Ellyn Bache serves up an interesting tale of relationships and identity in The Activist's Daughter. Living in bustling, Kennedy-era Washington, D.C., the Rosinsky family would appear to blend in well with their surroundings,  if not for father Leonard's despondance over his reputation and career  being destroyed after the McCarthy trials and mother Leah's determination  to single-handedly help every worthy civil rights cause in the nation.  Embarassed and angered by her mother's attention toward other people (and  lack thereof toward her own family), seventeen-year-old Beryl wishes to  break altogether from the activist's shadow. The best answer appears to be  enrolling in an out-of-state college--North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which  in 1963 was more likely a different country.<br />The Activist's Daughter is  straightforward storytelling and a good recommendation for teenage readers  interested in segregation and the Civil Rights Era. Though I would have  liked to have seen more interaction between Beryl and her mother (who  disappears mid-story and seems to pop up when convenient), Bache  compensates for this strong conflict by keeping Leah in spirit, as seen in  Beryl as watch her grow. Anyone frustrated with what television season has  to offer in terms of &quot;strong women&quot; should pick us this book  instead.	2000-02-29
US	53079398	RPBWQASO2HHMM	0887392202	910597553	The Devil's Rood: A Group Novel About America's First Serial Killer	Books	4	9	12	N	N	An unique perspective of a dark soul	This is a unique work which is presented entirely in character monologue, diary entries and media clippings, all of which relate to one Herman Mudgett, a man of many names and one dark purpose. To read of Herman's  nonchalant attitude toward killing is equally chilling than being given  blow-by-blow accounts of his misdeeds, and that for me was the true  horror.<br />The structure of this novel may remind some of Stephen King's  Carrie, which was written in a similar way. All in all, the book is a quick  yet engrossing read.	2000-02-15
US	53079398	R3PBVZ3Z4R31AL	188521121X	732170981	Travelers' Tales - Women in the Wild	Books	5	3	25	N	N	Look for my piece...	Check out page 100...the inset box. That's from my story! You may laugh at its miniscule size, but at least TT paid me for it!<br />Oh yeah. The rest of the book is good too.	1999-02-01
US	53079398	R3CN56H3G5YCNI	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	A disappointing effort	I am an avid Anne Rice, and as much I love her Vampire Chronicle characters, I believe she should have ended this series with Queen of the Damned, rather than continue with TOTBT and this title. The stories seem anti-climatic and lack the magic and passion of the first three novels. It's as if Anne is writing only to please fans of the series, instead of pleasing her self as she did when writing IWTV. A big disappointment.	1998-04-12
US	53079398	R3N75K808ZG2QN	4990035941	156488342	Iwo Jima - A Retrospective	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unusual representation of history; ideal for teachers.	&quot;Iwo Jima&quot; may be considered more of a souvenir scrapbook than the usual tome of WWII history--thi s package contains a short book chronicling the events of the 50th anniversary of Iwo Jima, with a few memories and anecdotes from some who experienced the war in Japan firsthand. The second book is an actual photo album detailing vividly the moments of the 50th anniversary.<br />  This is a great gift for a history/WWII buff!<br />	1997-10-24
US	53079398	R2L18LYV36MSAP	4990035925	177265039	Torment	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;Torment&quot; is a double-edged sword ; a good read	Though set in the Orient during and after the Vietnam War, &quot;Torment&quot; is not necessarily a military novel, but more of one man's tale of life, love, and hate in a turbulant time in our history. The novel reads as if protagonist Slim Scanlon himself is sitting in some Okinawan bar volunteering his life story to a new-found acquaintance. He recounts the events in his life--from his voluntary tours of duty to his failed marriage to his current one--as they happened, and the nonchalant tone the book offers when recalling especially the painful moments of Slim's life (such as his struggle to accept his father's fatal illness) is astonishing.  Torment is a novel for those who recall their own conflicts and &quot;torments&quot; and struggled to survive, as well as for military and Vietnam War buffs. Despite Slim's thoughts and actions, it is difficult not to sympathize with a man thrust into a life he chose because no other one was available, leaving to live one day at a time with his torments.	1997-10-24
US	53079398	RB5TB9R8MGYLC	499003595X	808605481	The Ghosts of Okinawa	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great reading  for Halloween...or any time of the year.	In living just three years among a people known for strong beliefs in the supernatural, Jayne Hitchcock has unearthed a treasure trove of Japanese ghosts stories and folk legends in The Ghosts of Okinawa. Though a slim volume, Ghosts is packed with chilling tales of haunted homes and military bases, ice cold spots in abandoned houses with no air conditioning, and instances of eerie wispy sightings at night. <br />  This is a book for Japanophiles and ghost lovers alike.<br />	1997-10-24
