US	53075242	R3V1BH747VFSOE	0465062792	340296974	Rogue Nation: American Unilateralism And The Failure Of Good Intentions	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A Christmas book for friends who ask: &quot;Why do they hate us?&quot;	This book is not for those who believe America SHOULD be the world's biggest bully, or those who think that 'winning' means America pushing others around to satisfy our desires.  These people (we all know a few of them!)  will not appreciate the fact that the author attacks America's smug, self-satisfied vision of itself.  Prestowitz documents a history of arrogance, duplicity, hypocrisy, bullying, vacillation, whim, and other behaviors that used to be considered faults or flaws.  (Despite his \\"conservative\\" credentials he may or may not get away with `criticizing America,' as he does in this volume.  In a country studded with \\"I support President Bush and our troops\\" lawn signs it seems doubtful that most conservatives will accept his `defection' from O'Reilly/Coulter/Limbaugh orthodoxy.)<br />Prestowitz sees America as `something special.'  He refers to America as a `shining city upon a hill', implying that America has more to offer the world than hamburger stands and superhighways.  One of Prestowitz's more controversial theses is that the United States should be guided in its foreign policy by some form or another of ethics and by respect for foreign nations and for individual foreigners.<br />On the first page, Prestowitz states: \\"What troubles me, and has inspired my title, is that increasingly large numbers of people abroad...are beginning to see us ... as, in the words of Webster's dictionary, `no longer... belonging, not controllable or answerable, and with an unpredictable disposition.'\\"  [Actually, the full definition of \\"rogue\\" appears in the head note: \\"No longer obedient, belonging or accepted, not controllable or answerable; deviant, having an abnormally savage or unpredictable disposition.\\"]<br />As others have noted, most of this depressing book consists of documentation of America's \\"rogue\\" behavior.  (For those unfamiliar with American history and who want to understand how the American dream has left the track, this book is fascinating.)  Prestwick analyzes the issues of foreign policy arrogance, stupidity, and bureaucratic incompetence quite adequately.<br />However -- I thought it ironic that the author (who is an elder in the Presbyterian Church, a Calvinist denomination based on acceptance of predestination) seems unable or unwilling to admit that he is simply a spectator: a chronicler of an evolving epic tragedy.  He seems to think something can be done to change the foreign policy the Federal Government -- and the special interests it serves -- is following.<br />In the last chapter, \\"City On A Hill\\",  (in predictably American fashion), Prestwick asks the inevitable (and predictable) question: \\"What then is to be done?\\"  (The option \\"nothing\\" is not offered - very American that!).<br />Prestwick posts a long laundry list of \\"we shoulds\\".  This is the weakest part of the book, since it is obvious that almost none of them will be adopted.  This is not because they are bad ideas (most in fact are quite sensible) -- but because neither those in power nor the special interests they represent will benefit from implementing them.<br />Still this is a well-written and interesting indictment.estwick analyzes the issues of foreign policy arrogance, stupidity, and bureaucratic incompetence quite adequately.  <br />However -- I thought it ironic that the author (who is an elder in the Presbyterian Church, a Calvinist denomination based on acceptance of predestination) seems unable or unwilling to admit that he is simply a spectator: a chronicler of an evolving epic tragedy.  He seems to think something can be done to change the foreign policy the Federal Government -- and the special interests it serves -- is following.<br />In the last chapter, \\"City On A Hill\\",  (in predictably American fashion), Prestwick asks the inevitable (and predictable) question: \\"What then is to be done?\\"  (The option \\"nothing\\" is not offered - very American that!). <br />Prestwick posts a long laundry list of \\"we shoulds\\".  This is the weakest part of the book, since it is obvious that almost none of them will be adopted.  This is not because they are bad ideas (most in fact are quite sensible) -- but because neither those in power nor the special interests they represent will benefit from implementing them.<br />Still this is a well-written and interesting indictment.	2003-11-17
US	53075242	R29PLT8GUOS5KJ	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Some specifics...	As far as being a masterwork, others have said it better in the other reviews.  I agree with their more eloquent words! --  I would like to make three points: (1) The work contains 18 maps.  They are all excellent, and I was glad to see Mr. Atkinson acknowledge that (p. 658): &quot;Gene Thorp, a master cartographer, demonstrated patience exceeded only by his great competence.&quot;  This book would have been crippled if the maps had not been included.  (2) I wish the title had been more specific.  &quot;An Army At Dawn; The War in North Africa, 1942-1943&quot; is a bit misleading since it exclusively describes actions in French Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia -- but not those of the British in Libya and Egypt.  The reader seeking anything about Montgomery's 'see-saw' war against Rommel might be advised to Bierman and Smith's &quot;The Battle of Alamein&quot; (which covers much more than merely Alamein!), or some similar work.  (3)  The biggest frustration I encountered with &quot;An Army at Dawn&quot; was that I needed to construct my own table of organization below divison level to make sense of the tactical maneuvering.  I wish the &quot;Allied Chain of Command&quot; on page xvii weren't so skimpy. Much of the narrative concerns actions at regimental level.  Using the index and the text I was able to recreate an adequate table, but this process was time-consuming.  For those interested, the regiments comprising Allen's First Infantry Division were: Stark's 26th, Taylor's 16th, and the 18th.  The regiments in Irwin's (later Eddy's) Ninth Infantry Division were Brown's 39th, DeRohan's 60th, and the 47th.  Finally, Ryder's 34th Infantry Division consisted of Fountain's 133rd, the 168th, and the 135th.  As far as Ward's (later Harmon's) First Armored Division, it was based on four combat commands:  McQuillan's CC-A; Robinett's (later Benson's) CC-B; Stack's CC-C; and Maraist's CC-D.  I hope this breakdown makes future readers task a bit easier!  Be aware that most of the book is about these units.  In Tunisia, the most gripping part of the campaign, the US Fifth Army (including it Second Armored Division and Third Infantry Division) are barely mentioned, usually as sources  of replacement units.  (Just in case you wondered where they were, it was NOT at the front!)  -- All in all, this was a fantastically informative and disturbing book (I am writing this review as hostilities in Iraq loom.)  We were very lucky in 1942; our troops went in cocky, and came out either wiser or dead.  Atkinson reminds us how arduous the path to competence was!the book is about these units.  In Tunisia, the most gripping part of the campaign, the US Fifth Army (including it Second Armored Division and Third Infantry Division) are barely mentioned, usually as sources  of replacement units.  (Just in case you wondered where they were, it was NOT at the front!)  -- All in all, this was a fantastically informative and disturbing book (I am writing this review as hostilities in Iraq loom.)  We were very lucky in 1942; our troops went in cocky, and came out either wiser or dead.  Atkinson reminds us how arduous the path to competence was!	2003-01-07
US	53075242	R1731RE2K6CJHW	039914871X	934933413	The Secrets of Inchon: The Untold Story of the Most Daring Covert Mission of the Korean War	Books	4	35	36	N	N	An excellent work betrayed... read it anyway!	This is a gripping adventure story.  Lieutenant Clark was the man responsible for checking, updating, and correcting information on tidal channels, mudflats, seawalls, beaches, and defenses during the two weeks prior to the Inchon landings of Sept. 15, 1950.  He landed, with two key Korean aides, on the island of Yonghung-do - just 12 miles from the city of Inchon.  His team took the isle, organized its 1,000 inhabitants, and maintained control of his looking post during the last days before the invasion which broke the back of the North Korean supply line.  From the base camp Clark conducted repeated clandestine probes of enemy defenses (frequently dressed only in mud!).  There is enough action and exploits here to satisfy any reader!  Paradoxically, this book's biggest problem is not Lieutenant Clark's fascinating narrative.  It is the inadequate way this book was put together.  Most bothersome are the curiously inadequate maps!  It only has two: one of the entire Korean peninsula, and another of the islands and channels around Inchon.  The first is unnecessary; the second is simply infuriating.  Of the many islands shown on the second map, only four are identified by name.  This is unconscionable since careful reading of the text allowed me to identify several others: Sin-Do, Sinbul-Do, Chongna-Do, Yui-Do, and Sammok-Do.  (I carefully penned the names of each of these onto map next to each island for my own future reference!).  I was also forced to create my own detail maps of the islands of Palmi-Do (the lighthouse island), and of Yonghung-Do (the base island) from Lieutenant Clark's narrative!  The book features eight pages of glossy photos in the center (15 photos) only some of which bear directly on Clark's narrative itself - too bad the money used on these was not spent on adequate maps!  (An index would have been very appreciated, too.)  Despite all these annoying flaws, I would still buy this book - simply to read Clark's captivating and extremely well written story.  Those who have slogged around in small boats, contending with tides, sandbars, mudflats, shell banks, shifting channels, and so on will especially relate to the challenges facing those Koreans who lived in these waters and who assisted the American `spy!'  Those who have served in the U.S. military (both naval and ground) will appreciate the knowledge and capabilities of this man, who seems a prototype for Navy Seals or for Green Berets of later generations.  Sadly, many who could learn from this man will never read a book like this, thinking he lived \\"too long ago\\" for anyone now to learn from.  Not so!  \\"The Secrets of Inchon\\" is worth every moment spent reading it!tten story.  Those who have slogged around in small boats, contending with tides, sandbars, mudflats, shell banks, shifting channels, and so on will especially relate to the challenges facing those Koreans who lived in these waters and who assisted the American `spy!'  Those who have served in the U.S. military (both naval and ground) will appreciate the knowledge and capabilities of this man, who seems a prototype for Navy Seals or for Green Berets of later generations.  Sadly, many who could learn from this man will never read a book like this, thinking he lived \\"too long ago\\" for anyone now to learn from.  Not so!  \\"The Secrets of Inchon\\" is worth every moment spent reading it!	2002-12-13
US	53075242	R2FHWK0P34DLA2	0679748407	587113700	Maus : A Survivor's Tale. I.  My Father Bleeds History. II. And Here My Troubles Began	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A masterpiece on many levels	The reality of this book seeps out between concepts.  It is and is not 'a holocaust book'.  It is and is not 'a memoir'.  It is and is not 'a biography.'  It very much reminds me of my wife's uncle telling me about things that happened to him in the Republican army during the Spanish Civil War, and stories my uncle told about his experiences in France during 1944.  Memories may sometimes lie in a tangled web at the bottom of a man's mind, but they possess a life of their own once awakened.  This work is an exploration of dark times as remembered by a man (Spiegelman's father) who is no saint.  In other words, he's an ideosyncratic individual caught in a web so big he often has trouble understanding it.  But like most of us lost on the bottom rungs of history, he applies his intelligence and creativity to survive horrors -- and plainly realizes that luck had much more to do with his survival than any personal quality.  Art Spiegfelman's exasperation with his father is as carefully recorded as are his father's recollection.  (Anyone close to a 'difficult' family member knows how uncomfortable a mixture of irritation and love is!).  This book is not about anything else than truth, the unpleasant and tedious search for the real underneath daily details of life.  This work is simultaneously: reportage, documentary, memoir, oral history, psychological drama, adventure story, tragedy, and poem.  It succeeds on every level.  --  It's a pity every high school does not include this work in its literature courses, not because it is about Nazis and Jews, nor because it is about the Holocaust.  It should be included because it is a masterpiece; that simply means if they never read it they will be (slightly) crippled for never having read it.	2002-02-25
US	53075242	R187BB9MKR8NI6	0968601413	22617774	The Road to Reason	Books	1	1	5	N	Y	Full of mistakes and superficial 'research'	This compendium of essays reads easily, but the more one digs in, the more it proves insubstantial.  The footnoting of each chapter is not only very thin (sometimes just four or five sources), but frequently refers to books out of print for decades.  For example, in the chapter 'Renaissance Humanism and Unitarianism' she quotes a book by Angus Armitage out of print since 1972, a work by Margaret Mann Phillips out of print since 1964, a work by Conrad Wright out of print since 1972, and a tome by Henry Steele Commager out of print since 1984.  Moreover, she cites another book by Conrad Wright as 'A Stream of Thought' when in fact the book's title is 'A Stream of LIGHT'.  ----  Though the casual reader might not notice, she refers to the 'new' term for materialism: naturalism.  If the reader more familiar with the term materialism substitutes it for naturalism, many obscurities become much clearer.  ---- In the chapter 'The Epicurean Humanism of Omar Khayyam', Hutcheon gives every appearance of not realizing that the so-called translation of 'The Rubaiyat' by FitzGerald is no such thing, but a total rewrite of one (disputed!) collection of verses attributed to the 12th century mathematician and astronomer. She (apparently) picks up a quote from FitzGerald remarking on a similarity between the thought of Lucretius and that of Khayyam, and jumps to the conlusion that \\"one can clearly recognize the influence of the great Roman poet.\\" Again in this chapter's notes she cites another out-of-printbook, (by Otto Rothfield)  last printed in 1922!  She garbles the name of one of her sources, correctly referring to him as Parichehr Kasra in the footnote, but referring to him as Kasra Parichehr in the text.  She cites Ali Dashti's excellent book 'In Search of Omar Khayyam', but doesn't seem to have read it very closely.  She quotes the 1922 comment of Rothfield when he states that the Brothers of Purity (Ikhwan al-Safa) \\"conducted their speculations on a materialistic plane and attacked all problems witht he instrument of human understanding.  They had a bias to natural science and tried to found a philosophy on their discoveries.\\"  Dashti, along with almost every source and reference available, describe the ikhwan as neo-Platonists who strongly influenced the Ismaili sect of Shiite Islam.  They were certainly NOT epicurians.  (Hutcheon fails to explain how one can FOUND a philosophy on the natural sciences, but we will pass on this epistomological issue). --- The more one examines this book of essays SCIENTIFICALLY, digging for facts, examining its logic, checking out footnotes for currency and relevance, and combing for misunderstandings, the more one finds.  This book, though it offers a pretence of scholarly research, is a series of essays marketing a point of view.  Its main value consists in getting its readers to do their own research and leave its author's specious research, reasoning, and conclusions behind...ttacked all problems witht he instrument of human understanding.  They had a bias to natural science and tried to found a philosophy on their discoveries.\\"  Dashti, along with almost every source and reference available, describe the ikhwan as neo-Platonists who strongly influenced the Ismaili sect of Shiite Islam.  They were certainly NOT epicurians.  (Hutcheon fails to explain how one can FOUND a philosophy on the natural sciences, but we will pass on this epistomological issue). --- The more one examines this book of essays SCIENTIFICALLY, digging for facts, examining its logic, checking out footnotes for currency and relevance, and combing for misunderstandings, the more one finds.  This book, though it offers a pretence of scholarly research, is a series of essays marketing a point of view.  Its main value consists in getting its readers to do their own research and leave its author's specious research, reasoning, and conclusions behind...	2002-02-23
US	53075242	R3SKHYUP74QD81	0231031882	298793801	In Search of Omar Khayyam (Persian studies monographs)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Sleuthing --&gt; in search of the Historical Omar Khayyam	Ali Dashti's book is a detective story.  He uses all the clues in Omar Khayyam's known biography and writings to paint a picture of what kind of person Omar was.  Dashti then goes through the myriad of quatrains (rubaiyat) attributed to `The Tentmaker', trying to sift out obviously counterfeit verses.  He goes on to find those that reveal beliefs contrary to what we know of Khayyam's own.  Dashti looks for personality traits not reflecting what we know of Omar.  And Dashti finally establishes a corpus that MAY be the quatrains actually spoken by Khayyam (since there is no record of him ever having written down a single quatrain!).  Along the way, Dashti teaches us a lot about 11th century intellectual history under the Seljuk Turks.  He explains why Khayyam could never have been an Ismaili, and how close he came to accepting certain aspects of Sufism.  We learn that the so-called `Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam' is no such thing, but a poetic creation by 19th century British writer Edward FitzGerald (who was `inspired by' a manuscript in the Bodleian library purportedly containing verses of Khayyam).  We also find out that Khayyam should have been famous primarily as a mathematician and astronomer; he was greatly revered in his era (and into modern times!) for his work in those fields.  We discover that Khayyam developed a calendar more accurate than the modern Gregorian calendar, and did pioneering work in cubic and other algebraic equations. -Dashti's tome is a true exploration of times past.  (It's a pity this book is out of print!).  Dashti, who died in his 80s of injuries inflicted on him in one of Khomeni's jails, wrote with grace and knowledge.  Even when one disagrees or questions his chain of thought, it remains fascinating and reasonable.  I have re-read parts of this work several times (after going cover to cover twice!), and I do not spend that kind of time on any but the best books!  Oh, do not miss the absolutely excellent introduction L.P. Elwell-Sutton, which is a fascinating overview; this is what an introduction truly should be!hich is a fascinating overview; this is what an introduction truly should be!	2002-02-22
US	53075242	R2TYYO1QPA6HXT	0449212750	270996775	Murder in the CIA (Capital Crimes)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Better than Ludlum, but Truman is  no LeCarre...	This book is just the thing for a long plane flight, or a series of quiet evenings at home. Its strongest point is excellent  plotting.  The character development and scene-setting seemed a bit thin to me.  Unlike the Smiley series by LeCarre, the writing seems much more commercial -- and it is hard to really feel (and intensely care about) the characters. (There are the usual romantic/sexual/love interests stirred in, but they seem superficial, reflecting Collette Cahill's shallow personality.) On the other hand, Truman's characters outshine Ludlum's stickmen; hers seem like real people (though just acquaintances, not friends). On excellent attribute of 'Murder in the CIA' is that one doesn't know who the 'bad guys' and the 'goods guys' are until just before the end of the tale.  I would strongly suggest that readers who don't want to lose track of everyone really should keep a pad to jot down the names of each of the characters.  This 303-page potboiler brings in quite a large cast, and many of them are important to the plot.  This book was written during the Cold War, and younger readers may have some trouble connecting with the anti-Communist motivations behind a lot of the action. Also some of the devices (post-hypnotic recollections, for example) seem both contrived and dated.  Things have changed a lot since 1987.  --- In short, 'Murder in the CIA' is not great literature, but it is a fun read.	2001-12-27
US	53075242	R2HPVQDPRQIEPM	0786884401	680218819	Betrayal of Trust: The Collapse of Global Public Health	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Written for the public, but chock full of disturbing facts	`Betrayal of Trust' is an interesting follow-up to Laurie Garrett's first book, `The Coming Plague.'  This book brings a journalist's skills to what could otherwise be a somewhat boring topic.  It consists of six chapters, each an in-depth examination of a different public health concern.  The first chapter investigates the pneumonic plague panic of 1994 in India.  The second scrutinizes the Congolese Ebola epidemic of 1995.  The third chapter  documents the collapse of Soviet/Russian public health, with particular attention to drug-resistant tuberculosis.  The fourth (and most controversial) describes the decline of public health efforts in the US under its `managed care' and `medicine for profit' health system.  The fifth chapter, titled `Biowar', is the most chilling (especially in light of recent events).  And the last, and shortest, chapter is Garrett's epilogue.  ---  I found it unnerving to re-read the chapter about biological warfare.  When I first read it many months ago it was documenting things almost no one (including me!) knew about.  Today -- post Anthrax Scare -- most of the chapter is a summary of what `we' (the public) have learned from the experts just in the past few weeks...  What makes this book worth reading is that `we' are still in our pre 9-11 stage of knowledge regarding the threats mapped out in her other chapters: drug resistance, virulent TB, tropical disease epidemics, the ever-widening impact of AIDS, the role of organized crime and corruption in the spread of lethal diseases, etc.  Though these topics are not pleasant, they will be thrust onto public consciousness in the coming decades.  Not without reason, Garrett's book has been compared to `Silent Spring'.  Incidentally, be sure to read the hundreds and hundreds of footnotes; they are not as much about documenting sources (though they often do so), as they are about expanding on the text.  One thing I will assure you:  You can disregard the cover blurb from the Washington Post stating that this book `reads like a Robert Ludlum thriller'; `Betrayal of Trust' is much too full of facts, names, places, and detailed history to be a Ludlum novel - moreover, it is NOT fiction.ting that this book `reads like a Robert Ludlum thriller'; `Betrayal of Trust' is much too full of facts, names, places, and detailed history to be a Ludlum novel - moreover, it is NOT fiction.	2001-12-27
US	53075242	R36L7P1XI0F3VV	0805048480	873819894	One Palestine, Complete: Jews and Arabs Under the British Mandate	Books	5	44	52	N	N	Riveting, depressing, and very worthwhile reading	`One Palestine, Complete' is a brilliant piece of history and a very depressing book.  Author Tom Segev is a columnist for Ha'aretz and a resident of Jerusalem, intimately acquainted with his topic.  Segev effectively combines anecdote, a gift for striking quotes, excellent research and a broad historical vision into this amazingly informative volume about the 31 years of British rule. As Benny Morris has stated: \\"He treats the Mandate period as a novel.\\"<br />The overwhelming image of the British mandate is that of parents trying to keep peace between their two children, their favored eldest son and his younger brother  ...  The parents tried and tried to get the kids to stop misbehaving -- and eventually gave up.<br />Many of us seem to have forgotten that Palestine was part of the Ottoman Empire until a short 84 years ago!  In fact, the British controlled this region for only three decades, from 1917 until 1948.  This book is the story of those years.  Among the horrors covered in this tome are: the Nebi Musa rampage of 1920, the Jaffa riot of 1921, the Jerusalem riot of 1929, the riots of 1933, and the Arab Rebellion of 1936-39.  Segev's traces their origins, but even more chillingly, describes how they unfolded, event-by-event and horror-by-horror.  Early Arab atrocities insured that many Jews would never trust their Arab neighbors.<br />Segev clearly distinguishes Zionism and Judaism. He reminds us that \\"much of the pre-Zionist Jewish population - that is, those who lived in Palestine before the 1880s - were ultra-Orthodox.  They were deeply hostile to the notion of secular Jewish autonomy in the Holy Land, which, according to religious doctrine, would be redeemed only through divine intervention in the messianic age.  To the traditional Jewish population was sacrilegious.\\"  [p. 14] Segev shows how this caused problems for the early Zionists, Ashkenazi upstart socialists scorned by the religious.  Under the `chalukkah' system, the Diaspora supported pious Jews in Palestine. In return they studied the Torah and prayed on behalf of Jews worldwide; the ultra-Orthodox saw no need for change.<br />Segev establishes that even from the turn of the century relations between European Zionists and native Palestinian Arabs were bad.  Regarding the `land issue', he points out that most people were tenant farmers on lands they did not own.  He quotes Chaim Margalit Kalvarisky, a Polish-born agronomist whose job included purchasing land for the Jewish Colonization Association:  \\"After the first purchase of land I made here I had to dispossess the Arab residents of their land for the purpose of settling our brothers.... They sang songs of mourning for their bad fortune, which forced them to leave the cradle of their birth.  Those songs cut through my heart and I realized how tied the Bedouin is to his land.\\"  Segev quotes the words of British foreign secretary Arthur James Balfour: \\"Zionism, be it right or wrong, good or bad, is of far profounder import than the desires and prejudices of the 700,000 Arabs who now inhabit that ancient land.\\"  (At the time, only about 10 per cent of the population was Jewish).  [p. 45]<br /><br />There are a lot of surprises in this book.  For instance, an interesting proposal that never went anywhere in 1922 was that the United States (!) take control over Palestine from the British.  A publication from the Zionist Organization in London opposed the proposal on the basis that \\"if the crude arithmetical conception of democracy were to be applied now or at some early stage in the future to Palestinian condition, the majority that would rule would be an Arab majority...\\" [p.119]. Segev puts to rest some myths, among others, that emigration to Palestine could have saved the doomed masses of Europe during the 1940s [p.461]. And, of course, the author reminds us of `the Uganda proposal', of 1903 [p. 36], which suggested a homeland in Africa, and which almost cost Theodor Herzl his position in the Zionist movement.<br />There is some humor here, too.  Segev describes early Zionist Commission meetings being held in a mish-mash of Yiddish, German and English, and David Ben-Gurion griping that `people walk around the country and don't even know its language'.  [p. 99] A footnote mentions that pioneer Zionist Theodor Herzl did not know Hebrew: \\"Who of us knows Hebrew well enough to ask for a train ticket in that language\\", he complains.<br />Segev describes internal divisions in both Jewish and Arab camps and shows how these drove events.  On the Jewish side, he details the bitter rivalry between Ben-Gurion's Labor movement) and Jabotinsky's Revisionists.  The author quotes David Ben-Gurion describing Etzel (Irgun) as \\"a Nazi gang\\" [p.471], labeling Jabotinsky as \\"the Fascist Satan\\", and calling Menachem Begin \\"the fuehrer\\". On the Arab side, the Nashashibi and Husseini clans matched the factionalism of their Jewish opponents, though with less colorful language.<br />I was surprised to find how many dubious Israeli practices grew from British models.  Sir Charles Tegert, brought in during the Arab Rebellion (1936-1939) was merciless.  Segev writes: \\"At times the [British] army would enter a village and stay there for several months... As part of the counter terrorism campaign, the authorities also destroyed houses. [p. 423]\\" Also, he describes the origin of the theory of collective punishment. \\"The laws and regulations under which the [British] authorities conducted their counter terrorism operations placed responsibility for crimes on the entire community ... everyone was to be punished.\\" Under Tegert, \\"Soldiers who were tried for abuse and even murder of civilians were given extremely light sentences.\\" [p. 425]. And Tegert \\"established a special center in Jerusalem to train interrogators in torture\\". (Jerusalem police chief Douglas Duff even describes torture methods he employed in his memoirs!)<br />Though depressing, I read this work through twice, the second time underlining as I went.  This is that kind of history - often unpleasant but ultimately fascinating.ement.<br />There is some humor here, too.  Segev describes early Zionist Commission meetings being held in a mish-mash of Yiddish, German and English, and David Ben-Gurion griping that `people walk around the country and don't even know its language'.   [p. 99] A footnote mentions that pioneer Zionist Theodor Herzl did not know Hebrew: \\"Who of us knows Hebrew well enough to ask for a train ticket in that language\\", he complains.<br />Segev describes internal divisions in both Jewish and Arab camps and shows how these drove events.  On the Jewish side, he details the bitter rivalry between Ben-Gurion's Labor movement) and Jabotinsky's Revisionists.  The author quotes David Ben-Gurion describing Etzel (Irgun) as \\"a Nazi gang\\" [p.471], labeling Jabotinsky as \\"the Fascist Satan\\", and calling Menachem Begin \\"the fuehrer\\". On the Arab side, the Nashashibi and Husseini clans matched the factionalism of their Jewish opponents, though with less colorful language. <br />I was surprised to find how many dubious Israeli practices grew from British models.  Sir Charles Tegert, brought in during the Arab Rebellion (1936-1939) was merciless.  Segev writes: \\"At times the [British] army would enter a village and stay there for several months... As part of the counter terrorism campaign, the authorities also destroyed houses. [p. 423]\\" Also, he describes the origin of the theory of collective punishment. \\"The laws and regulations under which the [British] authorities conducted their counter terrorism operations placed responsibility for crimes on the entire community ... everyone was to be punished.\\" Under Tegert, \\"Soldiers who were tried for abuse and even murder of civilians were given extremely light sentences.\\" [p. 425]. And Tegert \\"established a special center in Jerusalem to train interrogators in torture\\". (Jerusalem police chief Douglas Duff even describes torture methods he employed in his memoirs!)<br />Though depressing, I read this work through twice, the second time underlining as I went.  This is that kind of history - often unpleasant but ultimately fascinating.	2001-12-24
US	53075242	R1ZKL0YZOB7D6A	071674094X	369997521	The Evolutionists: The Struggle for Darwin's Soul	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A searchlight in the night	I found this book to be a godsend.  I have read extensively (30 + books) in the areas of complexity and chaos theory, evolutionary psychology,evolutionary theory, genetic programming, evolutionary history, genetic mutation, and other related areas and frequently felt lost in the forest of ideas, though increasingly familiar with each tree, twig, and type of bark (to extend the analogy).  Richard Morris does an admirable job of describing the forest, and helped give me a context to understand the (frequently high-decibel!) arguements between the advocates of different positions.  Right from the start, Morris categorizes thinkers into broad schools -- for example, among evolutionary theorists he groups the disputatants into two broad schools: pluralists and reductionists.  He clearly explains the differences between these, and does so without himself becoming polemical. He even devotes space to very recent studies (1999 &amp; 2000) casting light on 'which way the evidence points.'  Morris sidesteps the creationists (thank you!) and examines differences within the scientific community itself.  Many familiar names appear within this book: John Maynard Smith, Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Steven Pinker, Niles Eldridge, Steven Jay Gould (of course!), Richard Lewontin, Charles Darwin himself and others.  I was surprised at a few names that did NOT appear: Jared Diamond, Benoit Mandelbrot, Brian Fagan, John Koza and Terrence W. Deacon, just to name a few....  But my gratitude for Morris's very clear guide overwhelms my quibbles.  Those of us who stumble from book to book trying to understand the issues and the reasons for disagreements (not to mention the development of various lines of thought!) have long needed an overview like this one!	2001-11-03
US	53075242	R30L7B4DOAVET6	8423995887	30035258	San Manuel Bueno, Martir	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hauntingly beautiful and tragic	The parish priest has a secret... It is not that he really believes in love of his fellow man.  His reputation for good works is unchallenged.  He lives a saintly life.  He truly cares about and for people.  But he cares so much that he lies to his flock so they will not suffer or be scandalized.  He doesn't lie in any way that will harm them -- he lies to them about what he himself truly believes, precisely so that they can avoid his own tragic fate....  This book haunted me when I first read it 35 years ago, and it still stirs me.  Those who have lost belief, but are trying to be good persons in an often evil world should read this book.  It may make you feel like crying.  It did that to me....	2001-10-21
US	53075242	RQGKT36DMNXEC	1571052194	94403870	Usama Bin Laden's Al-Qaida: Profile of a Terrorist Network (Terrorism Library Series)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Sloppily put together, but quite informative	The objective of this book is (pg. viii) \\"to provide an easily accessible reference for academics, policy makers, the press and other interested individuals\\" and it succeeds in this task.  It includes biographies of most of the Al-Qaida members listed on the October 2001 FBI list of 22 most wanted terrorists (most of whom are listed by the FBI as Al-Qaida members!), but it actually gives thumbnail biographies of 32 leaders and members of the organization, with photos of 20 of them. It also lists 33 associates or former associates of `The Base.'  ----- Though this 160 page soft cover book is extremely detailed and informative, I found Appendix 1-A, the full text of the 1996 \\"Declaration of War Against the Americans Occupying the Land of the Two Holy Places\\" to be an especially interesting document, since it explains the Al-Qaida rationale quite explicitly and clearly.  Sadly, the Al-Qaida analysis displays quite a lot of perceptiveness about the cheerless situation of Islam, and America's economic interests in the area, not to mention the role of co-opted secularist national elites in the region.  The distorting interpretative effect of the fundamentalist theological worldview is fascinating, as this document sometimes describes our world as if in a funhouse mirror, recognizable but twisted into odd shapes.  Frightening is the almost casual leap from Al-Qaida's call to jihad against the West's influence to terrorism and the destruction of innocent civilian life!  ----- Unfortunately this book was NOT carefully edited.  The \\"Declaration of War\\" document was lifted from a web page with no editing.  It is riddled with typos, and one section appears twice: the last three lines on page 13 and all of page 14 are duplicates.  Likewise Appendix 1-B, \\"Jihad Against Jews and Crusaders\\" is truncated, ending in midsentence: \\"The crusader forces becomes the main cause of our disastrous condition, particularly in the economical aspect of it due  \\" [That's how it ends!]  The edited testimony from `U.S.A vs. Usama bin Laden' in appendices 4A, 4B, 4C, and 4D are all cited as [...] but this is not very complete. For example, the full URL for 4D is actually [...] .  Lastly, it was interesting to note that the following error shows both on the web page and in the book:  Quoting Ambassador Prudence Bushnell about the bombing of the embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, she is cited in the trial transcript as saying: \\"And I asked the driver to take me to a hotel rather than a hotel, because I very much needed to get to work and I was afraid if we went to a hospital it would just take too long...\\"  It would be interesting to find out how hospital (the obvious word) became hotel in the second instance.  --- I think the above examples clearly show that this book was NOT carefully edited.  Too bad, since it undermines its credibility somewhat...  but it is still well worth reading!ed testimony from `U.S.A vs. Usama bin Laden' in appendices 4A, 4B, 4C, and 4D are all cited as [...] but this is not very complete. For example, the full URL for 4D is actually [...] .  Lastly, it was interesting to note that the following error shows both on the web page and in the book:  Quoting Ambassador Prudence Bushnell about the bombing of the embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, she is cited in the trial transcript as saying: \\"And I asked the driver to take me to a hotel rather than a hotel, because I very much needed to get to work and I was afraid if we went to a hospital it would just take too long...\\"   It would be interesting to find out how hospital (the obvious word) became hotel in the second instance.  --- I think the above examples clearly show that this book was NOT carefully edited.  Too bad, since it undermines its credibility somewhat...  but it is still well worth reading!	2001-10-16
US	53075242	R2PH1FTVYX1OWW	0395964644	449966473	Birds of North America (Kaufman Focus Guides)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	I thought it would be better	The 'touched up' photos sounded like a great idea, but I'm a bit disappointed. Anyone who has seen a Stellar's jay, a Mountain Bluebird, and a regular Blue Jay would immediately comment on the striking differences in color! But in this book all three share a common 'muddy' hue... Ruby-throated Hummingbirds regularly visit my feeder, but the photo-illustration in the book so little resembles the real bird that I would never identify it from the picture (fortunately we only have migratory Ruby-Throateds and Rufous hummingbirds in this area, so the identification issue is not critical in East Texas).... This book is very brief when it comes to descriptions, etc. For example the Ruby-Throated Hummingbird gets 88 words, whereas in my Bull/Farrand edition of &quot;The Audubon Society Field Guild to North American Birds, Eastern Region&quot; I get 235 words. Also, unlike the Audubon Society book, Kaufman's book does NOT break the text into secions, and it contains no section under each species describing its nesting/egg characteristics.... I have not researched why the Latin species names are different in the two books (may not be a big deal), but one example is that my Carolina Chickadees are called &quot;Poecile carolinensis&quot; by Kaufman, and &quot;Parus carolinensis&quot; by Bull and Farrand. (Those more dedicated than I may wish to check with the American Ornithologists' Union Check-Lists and Supplements).... I have given this book 4 stars despite the above issues because in most other ways this is an excellent birdbook.... I liked the photo-illustration of the juvenile Northern Cardinal, which clearly shows the distinctive dark beak (adults have reddish or orange beaks).... The range maps make effective use of the color, using blue, light blue, red, pink, dark purple, light purple, grey, and white (8 each) to distinguish between scare and common distributions within winter range, summer range, migratory range, and 'all-seasons' range.... This is a pretty good book, and well worth adding to one's library -- but it is not the 'perfect reference.' I'm still looking......, and well worth adding to one's library -- but it is not the 'perfect reference.' I'm still looking......	2001-08-30
US	53075242	RWSF7GBGQ0J8D	0802847943	473721681	What Did the Biblical Writers Know and When Did They  Know It?: What Archaeology Can Tell Us about the Reality of Ancient Israel	Books	5	5	9	N	Y	The case for a real Israel...	It is frustrating when one is enthused about a book -- and one discovers that someone else has already written an almost perfect review.  I refer to ploni_almoni 's work, of course!  My only quibble is disagreement with almoni's statement: &quot;I am conflicted in giving this book a five star rating. On a first reading, I was disappointed by the extreme polemic in the opening chapters.&quot;  I found Dever's polemic, while extreme, fascinating...  Both David Noel Freedman and Baruch Halpern have praised this book (I'm being precise in my choice of wording!) and I'm indebted to reviewer Ken Sperry in provoking me to buy and read this book... I hope everyone else enjoys it as much as I did!	2001-07-31
US	53075242	RRHA5RL45A40T	0198601182	473968833	The Oxford Illustrated History of the Bible	Books	4	70	75	N	N	A mixed kettle of fish...	Like The Bible itself, this volume is a library of `books'.  It includes works of varying styles and topics, written by various authors, and collected under a single cover. This collection of 16 essays, by an assortment of writers, (in my opinion) makes for a patchwork approach.  The articles vary wildly in quality and approach.<br />The photographs, color plates, woodcuts, and engravings are absolutely spectacular, and complement the adjacent text.  It's a pity they are not numbered, but they ARE indexed (by page number and T,B,L,C,R locations) in an addendum curiously titled `Acknowledgement of Sources'.<br />The Oxford Illustrated History of the Bible is divided into four sections: (1) The Historical Background of the Making of the Bible; (2) Text and Translation of the Making of the Bible; (3) The Study and Use of the Bible; and (4) Contemporary Interpretation.  My ratings of each subsection are: 5-star, 5-star, 4-star, and 1-star.<br />Starting with the first two sections dealing with the Making of the Bible, don't miss the contributions of Philip Davies, `The Apocrypha,' David Parker's `The New Testament'; and Stanley E. Porter's `Modern Translations'.  Be aware however that Porter is solely concerned with translation of the Bible into English... those expecting coverage of any other focus will be sadly disappointed.  One `chapter' I had looked forward to reading was `The Bible in the Eastern Churches'. Bebawi's essay on this topic was a total disappointment.  It was especially sad, since the next article (by Philip Alexander, see below) was so well done!<br />Despite the fact that The Bible is 70 percent Old Testament and 30 percent New Testament, this book reflects a predictably disproportionate interest in Christianity.  (Predictable because so many more people adhere to Christianity than to Judaism).  Nonetheless, Philip Alexander's section, `The Bible in Judaism' is an excellent contribution.  Geoffrey Khan's portion, `The Hebrew Bible' is also superb.<br />I found the last section (Contemporary Interpretation) to be a waste of paper and ink.  The four essays included are: Feminist Scholarship; Liberation Theology: Latin America; Liberation Theology: Africa and the Bible; and Liberation Theology: Europe.  It boggled my mind to find (1) nothing about contemporary American fundamentalist interpretations of the Bible, (2) nothing about the technical problems of translation (like the problem of the shepherd/sheep analogy to island-dwelling fishermen who have never seen a sheep or any conception of why a shepherd would be involved with these creatures); (3) nothing about the relationship of the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament to religions and sects indebted to them but not based on them (such as The Church of Latter Day Saints and Islam just to mention two!); (4) nothing about the Pentecostal movement, especially important in Latin America; (5) nothing about Biblical  interpretations by `sects' (ranging from the Branch Davidians to the Jehovah's Witnesses - I could go on and on...  This work is obviously academic (in a very narrow cultural sense), and - despite the pretensions of Section four (Contemporary Interpretation) - parochial.  I was tempted to use a razor blade, and cut this entire section out of an otherwise excellent book!<br />Considering the amount of effort that went into this work, I wish that the editors had provided timelines.  It is probably a better learning procedure to go through the text with an Excel spreadsheet or Word tables open, extracting data from the text into a chronologically coherent summary, but it is `a pain'.  If a reader can do it, the editor could have done it.<br />This is an excellent work, despite many lacunae.  It filled an educational gap in my knowledge, and - given the partisan glosses that Bible study usually includes - should help others with a sincere desire to learn more about this library of religious readings.erb.   <br />I found the last section (Contemporary Interpretation) to be a waste of paper and ink.  The four essays included are: Feminist Scholarship; Liberation Theology: Latin America; Liberation Theology: Africa and the Bible; and Liberation Theology: Europe.  It boggled my mind to find (1) nothing about contemporary American fundamentalist interpretations of the Bible, (2) nothing about the technical problems of translation (like the problem of the shepherd/sheep analogy to island-dwelling fishermen who have never seen a sheep or any conception of why a shepherd would be involved with these creatures); (3) nothing about the relationship of the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament to religions and sects indebted to them but not based on them (such as The Church of Latter Day Saints and Islam just to mention two!); (4) nothing about the Pentecostal movement, especially important in Latin America; (5) nothing about Biblical  interpretations by `sects' (ranging from the Branch Davidians to the Jehovah's Witnesses - I could go on and on...  This work is obviously academic (in a very narrow cultural sense), and - despite the pretensions of Section four (Contemporary Interpretation) - parochial.   I was tempted to use a razor blade, and cut this entire section out of an otherwise excellent book! <br />Considering the amount of effort that went into this work, I wish that the editors had provided timelines.  It is probably a better learning procedure to go through the text with an Excel spreadsheet or Word tables open, extracting data from the text into a chronologically coherent summary, but it is `a pain'.  If a reader can do it, the editor could have done it.  <br />This is an excellent work, despite many lacunae.  It filled an educational gap in my knowledge, and - given the partisan glosses that Bible study usually includes - should help others with a sincere desire to learn more about this library of religious readings.	2001-07-08
US	53075242	R1BNZAW8VY1324	0762403004	390837410	World's Shortest Stories: Murder. Love. Horror. Suspense. All This And Much More...	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	A new genre -- tight writing	Perhaps we should all limit our book reviews to 55 words...  Like haiku, this genre is minimalist. Like haiku, the best is eternal; the worst is DOA.  This tiny volume sits on my shelf  silenty questioning me .... What would Thomas Carlyle or Sir Walter Scott have thought? ( And this review now is at 55 words....)	2001-06-24
US	53075242	R1YT4HJ4ZJDMZV	0198612583	341552322	The Compact Edition of The Oxford English Dictionary, Complete Text Reproduced Micrographically (in slipcase with reading glass) (v. 1-20)	Books	5	401	407	N	N	Some specifics to help you make a  buying decision . . .	This dictionary is unequalled (see the praise of all the other reviewers, with whom I agree regarding the quality of this reference).  Beyond excellence loom are other issues, however: weight and legibility are the most obvious.  My balance beam scale indicates that it weighs (approximately) 11-3/4 pounds (i.e. 5-1/3 kg).  So when a reviewer says this edition is 'heavy' this is what he means....  Note that the dimensions (sometimes called 'big') are 3.89 inches x 17.55 inches x 11.21 inches.... As to legibility, I cannot find any mention of the point size, so I will be more subjective.  I am 55 years old and I wear progressive lens (in other words I'm both farsighted and nearsighted!).  In average light if I take my glasses off I can read the definitions WITHOUT the magnifying glass, though the words sometimes alternately blur and sharpen, so it's sometimes a stretch.  I find it quite easy to read WITH the magnifying glass, especially under a lamp.  True, the tiny print means it's not like reading a John LeCarre paperback, but this is a * dictionary *, for Pete's sake!  I use it to solve linguistics puzzles.  Tonight I was stumped by the words &quot;theophoric&quot; and &quot;enclitic&quot; (both in reference to scribal practices involving the copying of the Hebrew Bible).  So I lugged the monster down from my bookcase (where it lies flat!), skipped pulling out the magnifying glass, and looked up the definitions, pausing as my eyes would go in and out of focus (I can be quite lazy when I'm lying prone on the carpet and don't want to get up to get the magnifier!).  I am absolutely happy with my purchase.  My wife would not be, partly because she would be shocked to discover what I paid for it, and partly because her case of early macular degeneration would probably make it unavailable to her.  So it's a decision to be made carefully, and one should be honest with oneself.  If you are visually handicapped, or if you lack an obsession with the English language, there are 'digest condensed' dictionaries which would drive me to tears but which might completely satisfy you... I can only say that I'm happy as a clam with my 'ultimate dictionary....'are 'digest condensed' dictionaries which would drive me to tears but which might completely satisfy you... I can only say that I'm happy as a clam with my 'ultimate dictionary....'	2001-06-20
US	53075242	R2T0N8TE4Q5YJ	0805211063	969973930	The Castle	Books	4	44	45	N	N	Getting by in a dream world...	Those like myself who seldom read fiction but enjoy looking at the world through different lenses may find the reading of this work rewarding.  K's travails evoked memories of my time in the military (in Southeast Asia):  nothing is as it appears, days of boredom are interrupted by moments of bewildering activity, people have whole menus of hidden agendae, one struggles to attain goals that later prove empty of significance, chance meetings turn out to have been pivotal, and apparently chance meetings turn out to have been carefully staged for one's benefit (or detriment!).  K lives in a world very much like ours... where the puppetmasters are unknown strangers, and our companions turn out to be very unlike what they appear.  If this novel has any practical value (heresy!) it is as a manual on techniques of 'how to navigate in the dark.' For those who doubt it, one can navigate in the dark, but one must use one's ears (distant sounds of crashing waves, the echoes of thunder, the direction of the seabreezes).  The biggest obstacle to finding one's way is a full moon -- one can see the sea, but the stars (far more important!) disappear from view. ... All in all, I liked Kafka's book.  As each of the characters around him reveal the reasons behind their bizarre behaviors, they become 'normal' humans, disappointing but less weird.  K is in some ways a lightning rod, provoking his very upset neighbors into revealing the reasons for their anger and frustration with him.  After awhile one doesn't even care any more about The Castle and its occupants; the village is more real and surviving in it is a lot more important than escaping from it.	2001-05-27
US	53075242	R2851OFCAZ0LGS	0865713979	823369554	Ripples from the Zambezi: Passion, Entrepreneurship, and the Rebirth of Local Economies	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Book published by progressives champions free enterprise!	Sirolli quotes Tom Peters (!): &quot; The market is frightening, even terrifying.  It's not pretty.  It's surely irrational, yet over the long haul, the unfettered market works for the most rational of reasons; it produces more experiments, more tries, more wins, more losses, more information processes (market signals) faster than any alternative.&quot;  This is the system Sirolli champions. In the Foreword to this book, Mark Roseland, direector of the Community Economic Development Centre at Simon Fraser University (Vancouver, BC) describes New Society Publishers as evolving out of concerns about &quot;peacemaking, nonviolence and feminism, later broadening to cover alternative economics, progressive leadership, and educational and parenting titles concerned with raiseding peaceful children.&quot;  This may be the first and last volume that both Libertarians and Progressives will read and say: &quot;Wow, what a great book!&quot;  Part of the miracle may be that Sirolli, an Italian, began his career in development in Africa (disastrously) and Australia (successfully), coming to the U.S. later.  Sirolli, unlike most people on the left, is not an elitist.  One chapter bears the subtitle &quot;If people don't want to be helped, leave them alone.&quot;  While Sirolli would go to government organizations looking for bucks to help an entrepreneur off the ground, he states (p. 24) &quot;Contrary to Dante's 'Inferno,' ... my hell wasn't populated by naked gluttons, greedy merchants, and assorted petty sinners.  The torturers ... were well-dressed authoritarian figures who, in the name of an idea, would torture and beat the psychological life out of the people in their power.  From unyielding bureaucrats to religious fanatics, from political extremists to rabid do-gooders, my demonology started to contain anybody who dreamt up a code of conduct and tried to manipulate or coerce others to follow it.&quot; Sirolli is well-read.  He explores the thoughts of Carl Rogers and Abraham Maslow and A.S. Neill (of Summerhill fame), quotes Peter Drucker (not to mention Confucius, Kahlil Gibran and Goethe!).  Robert D. Putnam (Bowling Alone) even gets a mention.  But Sirolli is basically a practical man of action trying to help individual entrepreneurs turn their dreams into businesses.  This book is about his decent, caring efforts to facilitate grass-roots entrepreneurial capitalists succeed.  It is a fascinating and heartening work!ham Maslow and A.S. Neill (of Summerhill fame), quotes Peter Drucker (not to mention Confucius, Kahlil Gibran and Goethe!).  Robert D. Putnam (Bowling Alone) even gets a mention.  But Sirolli is basically a practical man of action trying to help individual entrepreneurs turn their dreams into businesses.  This book is about his decent, caring efforts to facilitate grass-roots entrepreneurial capitalists succeed.  It is a fascinating and heartening work!	2001-05-27
US	53075242	R1GYWIPU4HGSHB	0520227573	338621790	Augustine of Hippo: A Biography (New Edition, with an Epilogue)	Books	4	162	171	N	N	A book worth owning...	I can only agree with other reviewers that this is an excellent biography... A suggestion to readers: Peter Brown, in this new (2000) edition, has added two chapters - as an Epilogue: 1.New Evidence, and 2.New Directions.  Since his original work dates back to 1967, I would strongly suggest one FIRST read these two chapters, then move through the body of the biography, and finally reread the two \\"Epilogue chapters\\".  (Don't ignore the footnotes; they're annotated!).  Some of Brown's conclusions have changed in the past 33 years!  --- Take advantage of the index; it is very well done.  Some illustrations: \\"Jerome, acrimonious correspondence with Augustine,\\" \\"Baptism, of infants,\\" \\"Africans, love of puns and acrostics,\\" \\"Pelagius, annoyed by the Confessions,\\" etc.  Skimming the index provoked me into re-reading several different bits. --- Brown's gift for expression (and his willingness to make judgments!) shine out everywhere.  Here's a single paragraph to demonstrate: \\"The congregations who heard Augustine preach were not exceptionally sinful.  Rather, they were firmly rooted in long-established attitudes, in ways of life and ideas, to which Christianity was peripheral.  Among such men, the all-demanding message of Augustine merely suffered the fate of a river flowing into a complex system of irrigation: it lost its power, in the minds of its hearers, by meeting innumerable little ditches, by being broken up into a network of neat little compartments.\\"  --- An extremely helpful tool is Brown's inclusion of a \\"Chronological Table\\" at the beginning of each of the five sections of this work.  Each is a multicolumn, vertical, two-page wide timeline that cross-references the events of each year (1) in the Roman Empire, (2) in Augustine's life, (3) in his writings of the year, and also provides (4) modern translations when available.  [I have already tracked down and ordered a Catholic University Press reprint of Wilcox's 1955 translation of Augustine's Tractatus adversus Judaeos - which I had never even heard of until I read this biography!  I look forward to reading Augustine's own words in 429 A.D. regarding Judaism!] --- This life history chronicles the development of one of the seminal personalities in the development of modern Christianity in such a way that you feel you know the man.  That alone makes it an impressive accomplishment.Judaeos - which I had never even heard of until I read this biography!  I look forward to reading Augustine's own words in 429 A.D. regarding Judaism!] --- This life history chronicles the development of one of the seminal personalities in the development of modern Christianity in such a way that you feel you know the man.  That alone makes it an impressive accomplishment.	2001-05-13
US	53075242	R1NBH0W95WFRX9	0679603409	619985996	The Nature of Economies (Modern Library)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Not at all what I expected!	To my amazement - especially after reading all the other reviews -I was stunned to find that this book is NOT * primarily *  about either economics or ecology!  It blew me away to discover \\"The Nature of Economies\\" is above all about systems theory!  ----  Both the economic and ecological issues (compared, contrasted, etc) are subsets of ideas that I first came upon in my meanderings through fractal geometry, non-linear systems, chaos theory, and related areas! [For those who have never read Benoit B. Mandelbrot, get hold of his opus &quot;The Fractal Geometry of Nature, Updated and Augmented\\"!  And for a less technical introduction, read James Gleick's \\"Chaos'.] ------ What Jacobs has done is apply the richness of contemporary non-linear math and systems theory to the two areas of economic development and ecological systems!  This is her contribution! Her method is what one might call `cross-pollination':  to use examples from each of these spheres to elucidate matters in the other.  It has been used from time immemorial because it works!  ---- I would caution readers that this work is - like those of Eric Hoffer, the Tofflers, Charles Darwin, and other creative people - merely an introduction to a new way of looking at things.  It is certainly NOT a textbook, nor are the ideas developed exhaustively.  But it gets one's thought out of the ruts and back on the prairie.  I am glad I read it! ----  Incidentally, I expected the `pentalogue' stylistic approach to be annoying; I was pleasantly surprised to discover it was NOT in the least either distracting or irritating. (Maybe I was so entranced by Jacobs' ideas that I wasn't noticing)...	2001-03-22
US	53075242	R2E3W9U3UY5DNZ	0890900906	54327842	The Collection of John A. and Audrey Jones Beck	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Limitations of the printer's art?	This catalogue is an art book with 69 paintings by 61 artists of the nineteenth and early 20th century, \\"that focuses on the avant-garde movements of Paris...\\" It showcases The Beck Collection, part of the permanent collection of The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, which - following its recent expansion - is now the eighth largest in the United States.  (NOTE: Most - if not all! - of these works are on display in the new $83 million, 192,447-square-foot Audrey Jones Beck Building.)  --- I took this book to the museum, and compared its reproductions to several pieces of the artwork while seated before them.  I took notes.  My thoughts follow: (1) This book displays the paintings sans their frames... anyone who has gone through the arduous process of selecting a frame is aware that the frame color (and background wall!) as well as the lighting trick the eye into seeing some colors more intensely than others.  Several works `looked different' and the discrepancy seemed due to the absence of the frame.  For example, Jean-Baptiste-Armand Guillaumin's \\"Le Seine a Paris\\" (1871), framed in a ornate, sand-colored frame decorated with acanthus leaves, appears much gloomier in reality than it does in this book.  In this volume it appears quite `naked'!  (2) Unfortunately the colors and darkness/lightness of the reproductions frequently vary enough from the originals to be noticeable.  Camille Pissarro's \\"La Gardeuse d'oies a Montfoucalt, gelee blanche\\" (1875), for instance, is much lighter in the original than in the book.  The reproduction's blues tended to the purple and even the sunlit areas seem in shadow, whereas in the original they are possessed of that piercing winter light that filters down during a cold mid-afternoon.  The dying leaves in the tree are muddled and dull compared to the painting itself.  In Mary Cassatt's \\"Susan Consolant l'enfant (c1881) the oranges and blues are very true to the original, but the entire reproduction has a yellow cast, unlike the painting.  (Curiously enough, the absence of a frame does NOT make any difference in one's enjoyment of this work!)  (3) I was quite upset to discover, looking at Gustave Caillebotte's \\"Les Orangers\\" (1878), that a full 1/8th of an inch (of the reproduction in the tome) had been CROPPED off, both left and right!  The left side was not distracting, but on the right the damage is serious, since a chair, with hooped top and round seat, are tangent to the edge of the original, but are cropped off in the book.  For those (like myself) who enjoy finding the geometries in a painting (Golden Rectangles, squares, etc), this makes such a study impossible... Incidentally, this painting is also marred by the shift problem noted previously; the entire reproduction is lighter than the original.  (The poppies look red in the painting, and orange in this work). --- All said and done, the work is unique, and printing technology is not perfect.  This is NOT a bad book; it just needs to be used with some understanding of its limitations.  The format incidentally is that each reproduction (right page) is faced by text (left page) describing the work, the artist, etc. --- Hopefully visitors to Houston will take the time to see the originals:  they are gorgeous!ng.  (Curiously enough, the absence of a frame does NOT make any difference in one's enjoyment of this work!)  (3) I was quite upset to discover, looking at Gustave Caillebotte's \\"Les Orangers\\" (1878), that a full 1/8th of an inch (of the reproduction in the tome) had been CROPPED off, both left and right!  The left side was not distracting, but on the right the damage is serious, since a chair, with hooped top and round seat, are tangent to the edge of the original, but are cropped off in the book.  For those (like myself) who enjoy finding the geometries in a painting (Golden Rectangles, squares, etc), this makes such a study impossible... Incidentally, this painting is also marred by the shift problem noted previously; the entire reproduction is lighter than the original.  (The poppies look red in the painting, and orange in this work). --- All said and done, the work is unique, and printing technology is not perfect.  This is NOT a bad book; it just needs to be used with some understanding of its limitations.  The format incidentally is that each reproduction (right page) is faced by text (left page) describing the work, the artist, etc. --- Hopefully visitors to Houston will take the time to see the originals:  they are gorgeous!	2001-03-08
US	53075242	R1HHU4Y5NUJWQF	0670881465	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Just memorize this book and you're ready for the jungle...	This book is a reference work and an instruction book.  It is excellent!  (Like all manuals your copy should be liberally underlined, and be covered with marginal scribbles - or it is not being properly used!)  Like most guides, it does not so much offer new information, as provide a concise summary of what one needs to constantly practice to survive in `the jungle'.<br />\\"The 48 Laws of Power\\" follows a pattern, observed in each chapter (with only occasional changes):  an introductory one-paragraph Judgment, followed by lengthy discussions of Transgression, Observance, and Keys to Power.  Each chapter ends with a section called Reversal (when `all the above' is contra-indicated!).  As a learning aid, scarlet paragraphs named Image and Authority are - colorfully - inserted as needed.<br />In addition to the obvious, this book is a beautiful example of design, with red ink nicely breaking up long expanses of black text.  Each page has 1- inch margins (main text to edge of paper) with carefully selected and pertinent quotations running down -- in crimson -- these white spans, and contrasting agreeably with the body paragraphs. Some of the ruby citations run a couple of pages; most are much shorter.  A few examples of the shortest, for flavor: \\"To have a good enemy, choose a friend.  He knows where to strike.\\" (Diane de Poitiers, 1499-1566, Mistress of Henri II of France); or \\"The remnants of an enemy can become active like those of a disease or fire.  Hence, these should be exterminated completely.... One should never ignore an enemy, knowing him to be weak.  He becomes dangerous in due course, like the spark of fire in a haystack.\\" (Kautila, Indian philosopher, Third Century B.C.<br />Prospective readers should be advised that this book - like most books on this topic - is essentially amoral.  If one cannot understand that the ability to follow a course of action is not dictated by the effectiveness of that action and that we can sacrifice effectiveness to morality (and often do!), this work may not be for them...<br />Incidentally (and I thought quite curiously) \\"The 48 Laws of Power\\" has two bibliographies:  the Selected Bibliography appears on pp. 431 &amp; 432, but a more detailed bibliography is inserted on pg. v (before the acknowledgements or table of contents!).<br />I liked that the nine-page Table of Contents is annotated.  It functions as a useful abstract of the 48 laws.  I gave a young lady in my office a photocopy of this summary, which she found interesting - unfortunately she didn't apply the principles, and was eventually discharged (she violated rules 5, 9, 11, 19, 29 and 38 to be specific!).lity (and often do!), this work may not be for them...<br />Incidentally (and I thought quite curiously) \\"The 48 Laws of Power\\" has two bibliographies:  the Selected Bibliography appears on pp. 431 &amp; 432, but a more detailed bibliography is inserted on pg. v (before the acknowledgements or table of contents!).  <br />I liked that the nine-page Table of Contents is annotated.  It functions as a useful abstract of the 48 laws.  I gave a young lady in my office a photocopy of this summary, which she found interesting - unfortunately she didn't apply the principles, and was eventually discharged (she violated rules 5, 9, 11, 19, 29 and 38 to be specific!).	2001-03-04
US	53075242	R39ODEL6Q38ZBE	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A really gripping pageturner of historical importance...	This book snatched history from the jaws of oblivion.  The authors deserve a lot of credit for their tenacity and dedication (read the Acknowledgements!).  --- Among other things this book answers why the Russians, just last year, so strongly suspected that the August 2000 loss of the submarine Kursk with all 118 aboard involved collision with \\"another vessel': for decades, U.S. submarines had closely observed their opponent's naval activities, and there had been collisions before!  --- This work is not only fascinating, but it is both detailed and well written.  No one can finish this work without learning A LOT!  It integrates events within the Naval espionage establishment with the international diplomatic, and the domestic political, contexts.  It shows how internal politicking within the Dept. of Defense affected programs, and even safety issues.  It even shows the large role that spies (notably the Walkers) played in the Cold War.  ---- But this book is, above all, an enlightening page-turner.  When, in the middle of the night, I woke up, my first thought was \\"I think I'll just get up and read a few more pages!\\"  And I did!  It's that kind of book.	2001-02-25
US	53075242	R26FHIQYAA5O5F	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	5	97	113	N	N	Bible History through the Looking Glass...	This book turned my view of the Bible inside out.  When my vision cleared, many things made sense for the first time. --------  The basic argument of this work is that &quot;archeology can show that the Torah and the Deuteronomistic History bear unmistakable hallmarks of their compilation in the seventh century BCE... [and that] much of the biblical narrative is a product of the hopes, fears, and ambitions of the kingdom of Judah, culminating in the reign of King Josiah at the end of the seventh century BCE.&quot; --------  The commonsensical implications Finkelstein and Silberman draw from this are earth shattering.  Did Abraham ever exist?  Did the Jews live in Egypt, and follow a man called Moses into the Sinai desert?  Did the invasion of The Promised Land occur - and were the battles at Jericho and Ai actual events?  Was Solomon a historic figure, and if so, was he a king over a large nation - or only a minor tribal chieftain?  Ditto, David?  Did they build an empire - or was that just a myth?  And how late was it that the Jews really became monotheists? --------If the archeological record and the biblical accounts meshed, this book could not have been written.  The fact that they do NOT makes this a fascinating adventure into the past. Much of the archeological proof of the authors' thesis is of recent provenance: the last 30 years...  Finkelstein and Silberman typically present the Biblical story or stories, then their critique of that narrative, and finally, their alternative explanation.  They focus on (1) uncovering historical truth and attempting to distinguish it from myth; and (2) explaining the motivations of the author(s) of the Biblical narrative.  I believe that they have done a scholarly job of both.  One useful characteristic of this tome is that it is liberally strewn with maps (13), drawings (14) and tables (9) that definitely round out the text. -------- Despite the title, &quot;The Bible Unearthed&quot; is strictly a study of two-thirds of the Tanakh (or Old Testament) - specifically The Torah (aka Pentateuch), and The Prophets (Neviim). [Not included are the non-historical accounts known as The Sacred Writings (Ketuvim), which were written between the destruction of the Temple in 586 BCE and the first century BCE.] -------- I find it difficult to understand how one could substantially disagree with the authors' thesis but even those who disagree with the authors' conclusions should read this enthralling book.  One can learn a lot from it, no matter what one's ideological stancee Tanakh (or Old Testament) - specifically The Torah (aka Pentateuch), and The Prophets (Neviim). [Not included are the non-historical accounts known as The Sacred Writings (Ketuvim), which were written between the destruction of the Temple in 586 BCE and the first century BCE.] -------- I find it difficult to understand how one could substantially disagree with the authors' thesis but even those who disagree with the authors' conclusions should read this enthralling book.  One can learn a lot from it, no matter what one's ideological stance	2001-02-23
US	53075242	R19GSGC9JAEAY7	0312233752	405836028	The Habsburg Monarchy, C. 1765-1918: From Enlightenment to Eclipse	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Billions of facts for your delectation ...	If there is anything a person could have ever wanted to know about the Austro-Hungarian Empire that is not at least touched upon in this tome - I can't imagine what it could be.  If you like to do timelines as you read a history book, leave at least five lines per year (better eight!).  The level of detail is truly incredible.  Robin Okey's approach is to offer fact after fact, event after event, and date after date.  ----  Curiously enough, implications almost imperceptibly seep from this jungle of detail - and they are as contemporary as tomorrow morning's news show.  The Habsburg Empire was a multi-national empire that failed, and in a world of multi-national states still trying to cope with nationality or tribal problems, this book has a lot to teach (or more correctly, the development and fall of the Empire carried its lessons, for all to learn from). ----  The last seven pages, \\"Assessment\\" brilliantly sum up Okey's insights; you might even want to read it BEFORE starting the book...  ----  Unfortunately, one of my biggest complaints about otherwise excellent history books mars this one too: pathetic maps.  This book has a grand total of two small black-and-white maps of indifferent quality; it needs dozens!  Although engravings and photos would have been nice (and are totally absent), the map failure is more than a minor inconvenience.  ---- On the other hand, though the notes are a bit sketchy, the index is excellent, and the bibliography is truly awesome.  Indeed, the depth and breadth of this book are revealed most clearly in its astoundingly substantial bibliography!  ----  Though Okey's writing style is sometimes obscure, more frequently it is overwhelming in its detail.  A sample, taken at random: (pg. 199): \\"The recurrent liberal image of clerical darkness versus contemporary light encouraged the new regime to ambitious plans for education.  The May 1868 school law made eight years of primary education compulsory.  Regulation of 1872 approved the old 1848 demand for academic freedom in the universities.  New universities were founded in Zagreb in 1874 and Czernowitz, capital of the Bukovina, in 1875.\\"  ----  Lastly, be advised that Okey's work is not just a political history.  It is a history of ideologies (liberalism, autocracy, socialism, and nationalism, just to name a few).  It is also an economic history.  And it is assuredly a social history.  This book, in short, is complete - so bring an appetite for facts to your dinner or prepare to leave the table with massive indigestion!1848 demand for academic freedom in the universities.  New universities were founded in Zagreb in 1874 and Czernowitz, capital of the Bukovina, in 1875.\\"  ----  Lastly, be advised that Okey's work is not just a political history.  It is a history of ideologies (liberalism, autocracy, socialism, and nationalism, just to name a few).  It is also an economic history.  And it is assuredly a social history.  This book, in short, is complete - so bring an appetite for facts to your dinner or prepare to leave the table with massive indigestion!	2001-02-13
US	53075242	R5UWKQ81U2W60	0807404837	713743250	Learn Hebrew Today: Alef-Bet for Adults (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	32	35	N	Y	How can a book this short be this good?!	I kept racking my brain for something negative to say about this book ... but I failed.  It does its job well. It is complete and concise (heck, it's even on acid-free paper, and only costs $8.95!).  The letters are large and clear (so you won't confuse vav with zayin, or chet with tav).  It is filled with exercises, culminating in excerpts from the siddur (it feels great to be able to actually read something REAL and not designed for 'beginners'). My advice?  Buy this book!	2001-02-06
US	53075242	R1NV6IXLRK8I4F	0802713599	771306796	Macular Degeneration: The Latest Scientific Discoveries and Treatments for Preserving Your Sight	Books	5	37	41	N	Y	If you've recently been diagnosed with ARMD, read this book!	A few years ago my wife had a blood vessel in her retina burst causing permanent partial vision loss in one eye.  (She complained of \\"wavy vision\\" the day before she was to go to Europe on vacation - she cancelled the trip.) Since then we have had an Amsler grid on our refrigerator door, and she has learned to cope with the `missing spot' in her field of vision....  Two weeks ago she noticed - while watching the Bloomberg channel - that she could not read a good bit of what was on the screen. This time the doctor found another leakage into the retina (not involving red blood cells); her vision returned to what it was before in a few days.  The doctor `put dye into her' to `check her eyes out.' - BUT this time the doctor told her that she has early dry ARMD. -----  I realized that we didn't understand very much of what we were being told ...  so I bought this book and spent the last two days reading it cover to cover...  This is really an EXCELLENT summary.  I wish we had had it before my wife's latest problem, because I would have been able to ask more intelligent questions. We will on the next checkup!  This deceptively small book holds more information than I thought could be packed into a 170-page volume in large type.  Dr. Robert D'Amato's explanations are not only complete, but also clear.  (I finished reading it before I noticed that the Macular Degeneration Foundation has endorsed it!).  I have a bent for details and proofs, for the exact pro's and con's of different `treatments.'  I learned that my wife's emotional reaction to her diagnosis (she was initially convinced that she `was going blind') was only partially justified.  Dr. D'Amato shows that this outcome is highly improbable; most people show a gradual loss, if any at all, over a period of years.  I learned, however, that it is essential to keep an eye on (unintended humor there) dry ARMD so that progression into wet ARMD can be detected, and then treated.  He details both current and prospective treatments for wet ARMD. ----  \\"Macular Degeneration\\" contains a very helpful glossary, and the book is filled with specific sources - so one can pursue additional research on this affliction!  -----  I was NOT particularly impressed by Joan Snyder's contribution to this volume, despite the fact that she is obviously sincere.  `Alternative medicine' seems to be all the rage now, but I think it lacks the rigor of true science.  Mrs. Snyder's very complete listing of alternative approaches seemed to me merely a catalog of `ways to kid yourself.'  [I was waiting for her to suggest prayer, pilgrimages, or divine healing -- which she never did, thank goodness!]  Dr. D'Amato's kind words about his co-author did not hide his skepticism about her sympathy for `alternative medicine'. He is a more patient man than I am!  Since the `alternative medicine' section occupied a relatively small part of the volume (the preface and Chapter 8) I don't feel that Mrs. Synder's contribution significantly detracted from the book's worth -in fact, for those like me who are hard-headed empiricists, the descriptions of `alternative approaches' told me: don't waste time on this approach!  ---- Hats off to the publisher: Note that the typeface is quite large which opens this valuable work to those who need it the most -- ARMD sufferers with significant vision loss!  I strongly feel everyone recently diagnosed with ARMD should read this book.eatments for wet ARMD. ----  \\"Macular Degeneration\\" contains a very helpful glossary, and the book is filled with specific sources - so one can pursue additional research on this affliction!  -----   I was NOT particularly impressed by Joan Snyder's contribution to this volume, despite the fact that she is obviously sincere.  `Alternative medicine' seems to be all the rage now, but I think it lacks the rigor of true science.  Mrs. Snyder's very complete listing of alternative approaches seemed to me merely a catalog of `ways to kid yourself.'  [I was waiting for her to suggest prayer, pilgrimages, or divine healing -- which she never did, thank goodness!]  Dr. D'Amato's kind words about his co-author did not hide his skepticism about her sympathy for `alternative medicine'. He is a more patient man than I am!  Since the `alternative medicine' section occupied a relatively small part of the volume (the preface and Chapter 8) I don't feel that Mrs. Synder's contribution significantly detracted from the book's worth -in fact, for those like me who are hard-headed empiricists, the descriptions of `alternative approaches' told me: don't waste time on this approach!    ---- Hats off to the publisher: Note that the typeface is quite large which opens this valuable work to those who need it the most -- ARMD sufferers with significant vision loss!  I strongly feel everyone recently diagnosed with ARMD should read this book.	2001-01-31
US	53075242	R1S1HTS3C9EFTA	0374512671	704443977	The Sabbath	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Cool water on a hot day....	Dipping into the pages of this thin volume is like drinking from a fresh spring in an oasis; it satisfies, but never stops bubbling up from below, refreshing again and again.  Though it might not affect others as it did me, this work launches my mind off on a chain of speculations.  And \\"The Sabbath\\" is quite poetic!  Every (!) page is filled with gems like the following (p67): \\"A thought has blown the market place away.  There is a song in the wind and joy in the trees.  The Sabbath arrives in the world, scattering a song in the silence of the night:  eternity utters a day.\\"  Another: \\"Israel is engaged to eternity.  Even if they dedicate six days of the week to worldly pursuits, their soul is claimed by the seventh day.\\"<br />\\"The Sabbath\\" is also intellectually satisfying.  Heschel offers fresh ways of looking at existence: \\"...time is that which never expires...it is the world of space which is rolling through the infinite expanse of time.\\"<br />At the level of daily existence, this work challenges a common perspective, asserting:  \\"Labor is the means toward an end, and the Sabbath as a day of rest, as a day of abstaining from toil, is not for the purpose of becoming fit for the forthcoming labor.  The Sabbath is a day for the sake of life.  Man is not for the purpose of enhancing the efficiency of his work.\\"<br />I mentioned that \\"The Sabbath\\" unleashed my speculative mind.  For example, I tried to imagine the bubble of space-time suspended in an otherness we call God.  Space is visible, filled with things; time is invisible but no less real. We and all around us float atop the river of time....  It occurred to me that at all instants, we are supported by the otherness that is in front of us in time, as well behind us in time.  I drifted into another rumination:  The First and Second Temples were works of men.  While wandering in Sinai, tents were sufficient.  And today, with neither temple nor tent, our new temple is one of temporal structures, carried inside each of us from place to place. Then, thinking of thingness, it occurred to me that Moses destroyed the tablets upon which the Divine laws were inscribed.  He left the broken slabs where they fell.  The stone was merely a tool - not the substance.  The words (seemingly evanescent) were the truly enduring element.<br />I hope other readers of this volume will find it the springboard for meditation that I found it to be.  I recommend it in the belief that it will.e each of us from place to place. Then, thinking of thingness, it occurred to me that Moses destroyed the tablets upon which the Divine laws were inscribed.  He left the broken slabs where they fell.  The stone was merely a tool - not the substance.  The words (seemingly evanescent) were the truly enduring element.<br />I hope other readers of this volume will find it the springboard for meditation that I found it to be.  I recommend it in the belief that it will.	2001-01-27
US	53075242	R3QO5TK521PXKG	0025471619	336923974	Flavius Josephus: Eyewitness to Rome's First-Century Conquest of Judaea	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Pity this book is out of print...	As an in depth introduction to the times and life of Flavius Josephus, this book is very good.  What prevents me from giving it a 4-star rating is not the text, but the (bluntly) inadequate appendices.  The there are no family trees of the kings and high priests of the period (167 BCE to 95 CE).  The maps are very incomplete (no indication of the locations of Sepphoris or Jotapata, for example!).  There is no time line of Flavius Josephus's life.  The &quot;Dramatis Personae&quot; does not list the dates of birth and death of each person.  Many characters who briefly appear are not even listed.  One minor quibble with the book is the Epilogues; though the author is French, I wish she had leaned a bit less on French evaluations over the centuries of Josephus's significance.  The basic book, lest I be misunderstood, is excellent.  I appreciated her liberal use of external sources, including but not limited to, the Babylonian and Palestinian Talmud, the Tosefta, Suetonius, Philo of Alexandria, Tacitus, Pliny, the Midrash Sifre, among many others.  The horror of warfare during the revolt, and the heart-breaking destruction of the Second Temple and the destruction of Jerusalem -- they are here.  Josephus's predicament, as he is caught between the super-power of his time and the insanity of his own people blindly bent on bringing destruction down on their people and land, is tragedy.  The futile attempts of one man to stop history -- doomed to failure -- are caught in these pages. This book is worth reading (but bring a pen and paper to compensate for the sorry lack of summary information normally provided in a good set of appendices!)	2001-01-16
US	53075242	R1ZEQBBSK3HHSS	0874415470	45603490	Conservative Judaism: The New Century	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Enlightening, thorough and objective history	\\"Reader from Stony Brook\\" and \\"William Adam Friedman\\" (reviewers here) have summarized this volume `dead on.'  They missed a couple of things that impressed me, however.  First, the selection of photographs and illustrations (all in black and white) is astounding.  These flawlessly complement the adjacent text, and deserve special mention for their historical relevance.  (Rabbi Gillman gives appropriate credit in the Acknowledgements!).  As a work of history this volume is excellent - those outside Conservatism (and outside of Judaism) will find it of permanent reference value.  A second feature I liked is that the significant figures of modern Judaism get both photos (or equivalent) and historical sidebars (set outside the text as if Talmudic commentary).  From the 19th century peer the faces of Moses Mendelssohn, Zechariah Frankel, Samson Raphael Hirsch, Isaac Mayer Wise, Alexander Kohut, and Sabato Morais.  A dozen more figures from the 20th century American Judaism appear on these pages in their chronological turn.  Third, readers should be aware that Rabbi Gillman is on the faculty of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, and served on the commission that drafted the 1988 Statement of Principles of Conservative Judaism.  Consequently he personally knew many of the giants of the Conservative movement - his insights into personalities and events are keen (and sometimes sharp!).  And finally, there is, interestingly enough, quite a lot about Reform, Orthodox, and Revisionist figures and ideas.  When Rabbi Gillman's explains how Conservative Judaism diverges from other currents (sometimes forcefully) he is fair and factual in describing these differences.  He even spends several pages elucidating the origins of the Union for Traditional Judaism, which split from the Conservative movement in 1990.  This book is a bargain; having read it I would have paid triple the price (though I'm glad I didn't!)	2001-01-14
US	53075242	R16VT27SXNVR38	0465020631	415707908	The Essential Talmud	Books	4	34	37	N	N	The &quot;central pillar&quot; examined...	I expected a lot from this book and (mostly) got it.  Adin Steinsaltz is perhaps the most renowned living expert on the Talmud, and has been responsible for the interpretation and translation of the Talmud into several languages.  \\"The Essential Talmud\\" is, however, an introduction.  (I found it was useful to switch back and forth from this book and Abraham Cohen's classic: \\"Everyman's Talmud\\".  Incidentally, in that work Jacob Neusner, in the foreword, has some interesting comments about Steinsaltz's approach to Talmud.)  Elsewhere, Steinsaltz has said: \\"The Talmud is the repository of thousands of years of Jewish wisdom.  And the oral law, which is [as] ancient and significant as the written law (Torah), finds expression therein.  It is a conglomerate of law, legend, and philosophy, a blend of unique logic and shrewd pragmatism, of history and science, anecdote and humor.\\"  Each of these aspects is discussed in  \\"The Essential Talmud\\".  This work is divided into three parts: (1) \\"History\\", (2) \\"Structure and Content,\\" and (3) \\"Method\\".  ------ I especially liked Part 1. I found this to be the clearest simple historical outline of oral law I have been able to find (though my Britannica comes close). Steinsaltz starts from the First Temple period and the time of the Great Assembly (in Chapter 2), through the Era of the Zugot (Pairs) i.e. 332 BCE - 37 CE (in Chapter 3), on to the Tannaim (the Scholars) and the compilation of the Mishnah (in Chapters 4 &amp; 5), and then on to the Amoraim (the Interpreters) of both Babylonia and Palestine (in Chapters 6 &amp; 7).  Most of the famous historical figures of these periods are mentioned. (A hint: I underlined interesting passages in black, and went back and underlined the names in red; this has proved even more useful than I thought it might!) Steinsaltz carries right on: redaction of the Talmud, exegeses including tosafot, responsa, etc, the development of Talmudic study during the Middle Ages, the first printings of the Talmud in 1482 and 1520, and persecution and banning of the Talmud shortly after.  Quite a good overview in only 75 pages! ------ Part 2, \\"Structure and Content\\" loosely follows the organization of the Mishnah, order by order.  This is a \\"condensed books\\" overview of the Talmud.  In places Steinsaltz goes into some detail; other areas are skipped over.  Especially while studying part 2 I found cross-reading Abraham Cohen's work (despite its admittedly idiosyncratic arrangement) quite useful.  Steinsaltz gives the overview; Cohen gives the twig-by-twig detail.  Also in this section, Steinsaltz VERY briefly mentions Jewish mysticism in a seven-page chapter. ------ Part 3, \\"Method\\" is the part of this book that left me most confused, particularly chapters 28 (The Talmudic Way of Thinking), 29 (Strange &amp; Bizarre Problems), and 30 (Methods of Study).  There simply isn't enough space to do the detailed example-principle-application that these topics deserve.  The very summary (and consequently abstract) presentation left me with a hunger to understand what the Talmudic way of thinking is - but no more understanding of it than before I read these pages.  Perhaps others, with a more abstract mind than mine, may find part 3 to be less perplexing than I did. ------ All in all a very good book.  I'm glad I read it, and I will use it as a reference guide in the future.Talmud in 1482 and 1520, and persecution and banning of the Talmud shortly after.  Quite a good overview in only 75 pages! ------ Part 2, \\"Structure and Content\\" loosely follows the organization of the Mishnah, order by order.  This is a \\"condensed books\\" overview of the Talmud.  In places Steinsaltz goes into some detail; other areas are skipped over.  Especially while studying part 2 I found cross-reading Abraham Cohen's work (despite its admittedly idiosyncratic arrangement) quite useful.  Steinsaltz gives the overview; Cohen gives the twig-by-twig detail.  Also in this section, Steinsaltz VERY briefly mentions Jewish mysticism in a seven-page chapter. ------ Part 3, \\"Method\\" is the part of this book that left me most confused, particularly chapters 28 (The Talmudic Way of Thinking), 29 (Strange &amp; Bizarre Problems), and 30 (Methods of Study).  There simply isn't enough space to do the detailed example-principle-application that these topics deserve.  The very summary (and consequently abstract) presentation left me with a hunger to understand what the Talmudic way of thinking is - but no more understanding of it than before I read these pages.  Perhaps others, with a more abstract mind than mine, may find part 3 to be less perplexing than I did. ------ All in all a very good book.  I'm glad I read it, and I will use it as a reference guide in the future.	2001-01-07
US	53075242	RH7CDPXRISC5J	0805210326	4583166	Everyman's Talmud: The Major Teachings of the Rabbinic Sages	Books	5	153	159	N	N	Portal into the world of the Talmud	This book is a landmark - \\"a comprehensive survey of the doctrine of this important branch of Jewish literature... a summary of the teachings of the Talmud...\\" in the words of its author.  Jacob Neusner's \\"foreword\\" describes it as the \\"first classic introduction of the Talmud to the English language.\\" As Neusner states: \\"The greatness of Cohen for the beginner is that he tells us the single most important thing we can know about the Talmud, which is what it says.\\" Abraham Cohen was born in 1887 and died in 1957.  His work is a groundbreaking opus that was originally published in 1931; he revised it in 1948.  (In 1931 the Talmud had not yet been translated into English!)  Neusner's foreword, as well as Cohen's original 23-page introduction, are marvelous and deserve intensive re-reading.  (Just one example of Cohen's support for the novice is his practice of defining words: e.g. Talmud = \\"study\\"; Halachah = \\"walking\\", the way of life to tread in conformity with the precepts of the Torah., and so on.)  The only weak area in the foreword and introduction is that of history. (Here I found the perfect remedy: part 1 of Adin Steinsaltz's book `The Essential Talmud' - also available through amazon.com).  Readers should be aware that Cohen's book is not organized as is the Talmud:  you will NOT find the six orders (seder) divided into tractates (masekhet) and chapters (periqim).  Instead he divides this great work into 11 chapters:  (1) The Doctrine of God, (2) God and the Universe, (3) The Doctrine of Man, (4) Revelation, (5) Domestic Life, (6) Social Life, (7) The Moral Life, (8) The Physical Life, (9) Folk-Lore, (10) Jurisprudence, and (11) The Hereafter.  ----- Those new to the Talmud should be advised that Talmud, which signifies \\"study,\\" is devoted to the ORAL Torah (not The Bible, also referred to as TNK or Tanakh).  The core of the ORAL Torah is the Mishnah, or codification of the Halachah, compiled by the Tannaim (scholars/teachers) beginning with R. Akiva and ending with R. Judah Ha-Nasi (who died in 217 C.E.).  It was written in Hebrew.  Somewhat later the Amoraim (interpreters/speakers/expounders) compiled The Talmudic commentaries.  (In fact there are actually two Talmuds, the more prestigious Babylonian Talmud, and the less esteemed Palestinian Talmud, both written in dialects of Aramaic, the language of the people.  R. Ravina completed the compilation of the Babylonian Talmud in 499 C.E.)  A word of caution: the term Talmud refers to these two documents, which include both the Mishnah (corpus of oral law), and the Gemara (completion -- or commentary on the Mishnah) - but the term \\"Talmud\\" also can be used as a synonym for Gemara! (Like referring both to the white of an egg, and the whole ovoid package as \\"egg&quot;.) ------ As one might gather I found Cohen's book very informative.  But like any summary, it mainly should serve as jumping off point to explore the original document(s).  The Babylonian Talmud (available in at least two English translations) awaits me.  Looks like a long journey!d ending with R. Judah Ha-Nasi (who died in 217 C.E.).  It was written in Hebrew.  Somewhat later the Amoraim (interpreters/speakers/expounders) compiled The Talmudic commentaries.   (In fact there are actually two Talmuds, the more prestigious Babylonian Talmud, and the less esteemed Palestinian Talmud, both written in dialects of Aramaic, the language of the people.  R. Ravina completed the compilation of the Babylonian Talmud in 499 C.E.)  A word of caution: the term Talmud refers to these two documents, which include both the Mishnah (corpus of oral law), and the Gemara (completion -- or commentary on the Mishnah) - but the term \\"Talmud\\" also can be used as a synonym for Gemara! (Like referring both to the white of an egg, and the whole ovoid package as \\"egg&quot;.) ------ As one might gather I found Cohen's book very informative.  But like any summary, it mainly should serve as jumping off point to explore the original document(s).   The Babylonian Talmud (available in at least two English translations) awaits me.  Looks like a long journey!	2001-01-01
US	53075242	R2T87AF95IINDC	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Better than most, but not his best	I read eight of Le Carre's \\"cold war\\" novels with fascination and delight as they came out (missed a couple).  Perhaps I was foolish, but I felt that I was exploring the fringes of reality as I wandered into the lives of Smiley and his associates.  (Histories of Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia make me think that the evils of that time were not imaginary and can only be matched by the horrors of Sierra Leone, Colombia, Nicaragua, Rwanda, Cambodia, etc, more recently!)  The Cold War ended. Le Carre shifted his focus.  This is the first Le Carre novel I have read since \\"The Night Manager\\" (a work about drug dealing which disappointed me.)  I was nervous.  Would it succeed any better?  I came away with mixed feelings and assessments. ----- The writing, characterization, description, and style are as good or better than ever.  And I came away with my dread of Africa undiminished.  (It seems bent on remaining the fun-house mirror to a corrupt world.)  But I could not buy into the \\"evil pharmaceutical company fobbing off a dangerous drug\\" thesis.  (Frankly I was surprised that Moi and his crew, though mentioned, were only tangential to the plot of this novel.  Moi is yet one more example of the banality of evil!)  Le Carre admits, in his afterward or \\"author's note\\", that \\"with one exception nobody in this story, and no outfit or corporation, thank God, is based upon an actual person or outfit in the real world...\\" Then he states: \\"As my journey through the pharmaceutical jungle progressed, I came to realize that, by comparison with the reality, my story was as tame as a holiday postcard.\\"  That upset me!  I wish he had written a novel about the reality of the \\"pharmaceutical jungle\\", instead of this \\"tame\\" story!  Mr. Le Carre could have crafted one heck of an adventure written about that jungle instead of those of northern Kenya.  As I read \\"The Constant Gardner\\", I kept feeling \\"this could have been so much more!\\"  On the other hand, this is a perfectly respectable novel.  It's just that -- though worth reading once --  \\"The Constant Gardner\\" is not a book I will go back and re-read again, as I sometimes do with his Smiley works...vel.  It's just that -- though worth reading once --  \\"The Constant Gardner\\" is not a book I will go back and re-read again, as I sometimes do with his Smiley works...	2000-12-31
US	53075242	R1AACQD3TT4V1Y	0824603400	77401496	Celebration: The Book of Jewish Festivals	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not just a beautiful book!	Full color photographs, recipes, history, descriptions of customs, fables and aggadah - this book has it all!  \\"Celebration, The Book of Jewish Festivals\\" starts at Rosh Hashanah (Head of the Year), and extensively covers all the other major festivals and holy days in their proper order.  These are Yom Kippur (Day of Atonement) on 10th Tishri, Sukkoth (Feast of Booths) on 15th Tishri, Hoshana Rabba (7th Day of Sukkot) on 21st Tishri; Shemini Atzeret (8th Day of Sukkoth) on 22nd Tishri, and Simchat Torah (9th Day of Sukkoth) on 23rd Tishri.  This volume then moves to Channukah (The Festival of Lights) on 25th Kislev, Purim (Lots) on 14th Adar, and Pesach or Passover (celebrating the Exodus from Egypt) on 15th Nissan.  Last this work examines Shavuot (The Festival of Weeks, or Harvest Festival) on 15th Nissan.  (Note that Tisha B'Av or 9th Av, which mourns the destruction of the First and Second Temples, is NOT covered, nor are many modern festivals celebrated in Israel.)  ---- Unlike many books that have excellent photos and fourth-rate text, the text supports its share of the task.  Though an observant Jew in a practicing family would know most of the information presented, for those raised outside the traditions it is a treasure trove of information.  The recipes and photographs of food (mmmmm!!) alone are worth the price of this book.  Though it looks like a \\"coffee table\\" book, it is SEVERAL steps above that!!	2000-12-24
US	53075242	R35Y12IBTBRXW	0679435972	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	94	101	N	N	A joy to read -- very informative	This is a scholarly, detailed book about the development of religious thought from 1492 to 1999.  More specifically it is about fundamentalism, which Karen Armstrong describes as movements of \\"embattled forms of spirituality\\" engaging in struggles to \\"re-sacralize an increasingly skeptical world\\".  One can disagree with her contention that fundamentalist movements are \\"adamantly opposed to many of the most positive values of modern society\\", but many fundamentalists do seem to identify our age as one of \\"cosmic war between the forces of good and evil\\".  I thought her contention that fundamentalists perceive that they are at risk of annihilation and that, consequently, they radiate fear does ring true.  -----  Armstrong, a former Roman Catholic nun and author of at least 12 other books about religion, apparently is controversial (see other reviews!) but I found this book to be a well-researched history.  It examines only four currents of fundamentalist thought:  Jewish, American Protestant, Islamic Sunni (in Egypt), and Shiite Islamic (in Iran).  (Do NOT look for any examination of fundamentalist currents in Roman Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism, etc - they are NOT represented.)  Armstrong's knowledge of Islam is legendary (she is an honorary member of the Association of Muslim Social Sciences and has written extensively about Islam).  She also impressed me with her knowledge of Judaism.  (Perhaps this is not surprising since she teaches at the Leo Baeck School for the Study of Judaism!).  -----  \\"The Battle for God\\" can be read as four parallel volumes, and I would recommend readers to go completely through each of the four threads separately, as well as reading the volume straight through.  (\\"The Battle for God\\" is worth reading and re-reading!)  The first time I picked up this book I focused on the historical development of Islam, and found the content to be very helpful.  This second time through, I carefully re-read the chapters tracing the Jewish experience.  (The author starts \\"The Battle for God\\" with Judaism and in an interview stated that this placement was because \\"the Jewish people were the first of many peoples to experience modernity initially not as liberating and enlightening, but as a lethal assault.\\")  ----  Frankly, as an American living in the Bible Belt (Texas) I found much of the information about Protestant fundamentalism to be \\"old news.\\"  This might not be true of others with less daily contact with American Protestant fundamentalists.  Make your own judgement...  ----  Especially in my examination of Judaism, I used Armstrong's book along with an online search engine to follow up historical threads (and I was surprised at the enormous amount of detailed online information about Judaism!)  This volume opened my eyes to vast new horizons and confirmed my ignorance of enormous areas of human religious thought.  I found \\"The Battle for God\\" to be highly useful in initiating new explorations...I hope other readers do too!(The author starts \\"The Battle for God\\" with Judaism and in an interview stated that this placement was because \\"the Jewish people were the first of many peoples to experience modernity initially not as liberating and enlightening, but as a lethal assault.\\")  ----  Frankly, as an American living in the Bible Belt (Texas) I found much of the information about Protestant fundamentalism to be \\"old news.\\"   This might not be true of others with less daily contact with American Protestant fundamentalists.  Make your own judgement...  ----   Especially in my examination of Judaism, I used Armstrong's book along with an online search engine to follow up historical threads (and I was surprised at the enormous amount of detailed online information about Judaism!)  This volume opened my eyes to vast new horizons and confirmed my ignorance of enormous areas of human religious thought.  I found \\"The Battle for God\\" to be highly useful in initiating new explorations...I hope other readers do too!	2000-12-18
US	53075242	R2L3YNCRHAGQ8E	068484298X	699337796	What is a Jew?	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Really neat introduction!	Some books on religion give a warm fuzzy feeling - others give a lot of detailed information.  This work is definitely in category two!  In a question-response format (114 of each), this volume manages to cover almost anything one would want to know about Judaism.  Originally written by the late Rabbi Morris N. Kertner, his nephew Rabbi Lawrence A. Hoffman has updated it.  (\\"What Is a Jew\\" was first published in 1953, and has gone through three revisions, and countless reprints.)  A new feature I found very useful in this revised edition is its transliteration of Hebrew words -- abundant in this work -- as they occur, together with their meanings.  The 148 Hebrew (and occasionally Yiddish or Aramaic) terms used throughout the text are brought together in a glossary at the end of the volume, too.  ----  Though this book is written from a \\"middle of the road\\" Jewish perspective, it carefully points out the differences between the four contemporary major divisions of Judaism (Reform, Conservative, Orthodox, and Reconstructionist schools).  \\"What Is a Jew\\" also gives fair treatment to the Chasidim (Hassidim), and such historical schools as the Sadducees, Pharisees, Mitnagdim, and others.  To give an idea of the range of questions covered in this paperback, here is a brief sample:  \\"Who Were `The Rabbis'?\\"; \\"What is Halachah?\\"; \\"Is There a Priesthood in Judaism?\\";  \\"Do Jews Believe Literally in Satan?\\"; \\"According to Judaism, Do Animals Have Rights?\\"; \\"What is the Difference Between A Synagogue, a Shul, and A Temple?\\"; Why Do Some Jews Keep Only One Day of a Holy Day, While Others Keep Two?\\";  and \\"What Is the Jewish Attitude Toward Divorce?\\"; \\"Does Judaism Accept Converts?\\", and many other equally interesting topics.  ---- I believe that whoever masters the contents of this fascinating volume will be well on his/her way to a fascinating voyage of discovery.  Any non-Jew (like myself) who has ever been invited to a Bar Mitzvah, and has come out of the synagogue laden with questions, will find his/her journey out of ignorance a pleasant and rewarding one!  This is as good a guide as I have been able to find...with questions, will find his/her journey out of ignorance a pleasant and rewarding one!  This is as good a guide as I have been able to find...	2000-12-16
US	53075242	R7XMDGTEW2ATE	0156106981	600092502	Basic Judaism (Harvest Book.)	Books	3	67	71	N	Y	A very, very basic introduction...	There are two things one should know about this book.  One, (as the author points out) this book \\"is a book about the Jewish religion - not about Jews or Jewish problems, or Jewish culture, or Zionism, but about those beliefs, ideals, and practices which make up the historic Jewish faith.\\"  Two, it is indeed - very - basic.  Perhaps my thirst for detail keeps me from appreciating this short a summary.  I found MUCH more information in three hours on the Internet than turns up here.... Perhaps the book suffers because the author is trying to span the breadth of Judaism, from Reform to Orthodox, in one volume....  On a positive note, Rabbi Steinberg does not beat about the bush - to give one example. he straightforwardly describes the differences between (the various forms of) Christianity and Judaism.  His views on St. Paul are \\"challenging\\".  Christians may not like his judgments, but I thought many of them seem quite on-target. On the negative side, do not expect from this volume a listing of the 613 Jewish commandments (though they are mentioned).  Do not expect any description of the Jewish lunar calendar, or any listing of the months.  Do not expect any description of the Hebrew language.  Do not expect any detailed description of the liturgy of the Shabbat service.  I could forgive much of this (since the book is only 172 pages long) except for the fact the author is verbose - especially in the first half of the book.  (Incidentally, be aware that \\"Basic Judaism\\" lacks all of the following: a bibliography, a glossary, any appendices, and an index!)  Though I found this a pleasant read, I wouldn't use it as a starting point for any in-depth study of Judaism.	2000-12-11
US	53075242	R3SOH537LO8I5Y	0393038912	733405472	Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Our 13,000 year old civilization	I wish this book had been around 30 years ago when I sat through an unsatisfying course known as \\"World History\\" (it was actually just a history of Western Eurasia!).  Since I was very impressed by Jared Diamond's earlier work \\"The Third Chimpanzee\\" I hoped this work would equal it.  It surpasses it!  (In scope, clarity of thought and expression, and overarching unity it reminds me of Darwin's \\"Origin of Species.\\")  This book examines the last 13,000 years of human history, and seeks to explain the rise of civilizations -- analyzing the environmental and ecological engines driving the process.  One way to capture Diamond's investigative method (and his charming writing style) is to read his chapter titles and/or subtitles.  Some examples:  \\"Why the Inca emperor Atahuallpa did not capture King Charles I of Spain\\"; \\"Lethal Gift of Livestock:  The evolution of germs\\"; \\"How China Became Chinese\\"; \\"How Africa Became Black\\"; \\"How to Make An Almond:  The unconscious development of ancient crops\\";  \\"From Egalitarianism to Kleptocracy:  The evolution of government and religion\\".  If these give a macro view of this book, let's take some excerpts to see it in microscopic detail:  (p. 260) \\"Our adoption of food production, which required us to remain close to our crops, orchards, and stored food surpluses [was linked to] sedentary living [which] was decisive for the history of technology, because it enabled people to accumulate non-portable possessions.  Nomadic hunter-gatherers are limited to technology that can be carried.  If you move often and lack vehicles or draft animals, you confine your possessions to babies, weapons, and a bare minimum of other absolute necessities small enough to carry.  You can't be burdened with pottery and printing presses.... \\"  Yes, Diamond's uses his subtle wit to make points succinctly and tellingly!  He also uses 21 maps, 13 figures and tables, and 39 photographs to illustrate complex information simply.  The photographs depict the splendorous variety of human types, giving lie to the inadequate standard racial categories of Caucasian, Black, Asiatic, and Aborigine.  The maps depict the spread not only of wave after waves of human populations and languages, but also of their cultivated crops and livestock.  This book is a splendid synthesis.  Bring a highlighter (or pencil to underline) and travel through a fascinating voyage in \\"World History\\" -- as I wished I had studied it 30 years ago!ous variety of human types, giving lie to the inadequate standard racial categories of Caucasian, Black, Asiatic, and Aborigine.   The maps depict the spread not only of wave after waves of human populations and languages, but also of their cultivated crops and livestock.  This book is a splendid synthesis.  Bring a highlighter (or pencil to underline) and travel through a fascinating voyage in \\"World History\\" -- as I wished I had studied it 30 years ago!	2000-12-07
US	53075242	R4S4L9B5DLFYQ	0231120060	235201594	Pain: The Science of Suffering (Maps of the Mind)	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Captivating study of a grim subject...	A word of advice: as the author states in the preface, this book is NOT a textbook, nor a do-it-yourself recipe book for pain relief.  It is a work of communication for educated laymen \\"intended to give the readers the power of understanding processes in their own body.\\" If the topic were not so grim, one could describe this work as \\"fascinating and fun.\\"  The topics he touches on range from studies of Yom Kippur War survivors to biofeedback training, from migraine auras to the sensitivity of babies to pain, from hand injuries to cannabis, and from nerve regeneration to the attention mechanism in ducklings and monkeys. The slim volume is filled with anecdote and humor, as well as with suffering.  He reminds us that pain frequently occurs without physiological basis, and that pain sometimes fails to kick in when we are severely ill. ---- Dr. Patrick Wall  (a British professor of physiology who started his career 40 years ago as a neuroscientist) is the author of several other books about pain.  He unfortunately has first hand knowledge of pain.  He is the victim of cancer.  ---- This volume explains what we have learned in recent years about pain - and is honest about the vast amount of ignorance still to be conquered.  After examining the corpus of knowledge - much of it gained in the last few decades -- in the first nine chapters, Dr. Wall brings together \\"all the phenomena we have discussed in the previous chapters and ask[s] what precisely is going on in someone who senses pain\\" in Chapter 10.  His purpose: \\"a profound understanding one's own pain has itself a therapeutic effect and proposes a rationale for therapy.\\"  This is a fascinating summary of the status of knowledge to today.  It is a work that invites re-reading.	2000-10-15
US	53075242	RFI8PMCWNCJLD	0312264909	672566972	Khomeini: Life of the Ayatollah	Books	5	26	31	N	N	A history of 20th century Iran!	This biography of Ruhollah Khomeini (1902 - 1989) is not just a biography.  It also is an excellent introduction to the theological and intellectual, as well as political, currents of 20th century Iran.  I was struck by how different Baqer Moin's `view from inside Islam' is from others' `view from outside Islam.'  One can glimpse the feelings, frustrations, and motivations of a people caught in a world where they were losing control over their own fates.  The first chapters of this book are mind-bogglingly informative, telling the story of how a Western-influenced elite futilely tried to create a secular state atop a deeply traditional Shiite society.  Ultimately the elites were so out of touch that they lost control; Iranian Shiism and its religious leaders channeled popular discontent and were able to control the directions in which Iran would evolve.  Baqer Moin brilliantly documents Ruhollah Khomeini's development over a lifetime, explaining him in terms of Shiite theology, mysticism, and law - not to mention as power politician and demagogue.  He states: \\"Khomeini established his credentials as a prominent religious leader before moving on to the political arena in order to both strengthen his standing within the religious establishment and widen his power base in general.\\"  As Moin also points out: \\"Khomeini was, in a sense, one of the few to have reached the stature of a leading jurisprudent, the highest level of theoretical mysticism and also to have become a highly-regarded teacher of Islamic philosophy.  He was unique in being at the same time a leading practitioner of militant Islam.\\"  Ultimately the author documents a fanatic firmly convinced that he is the representative of God on earth, using his religious position to command absolute authority.  Khomeini's deep debt (usually unrecognized) to Islamic mysticism is fully explored.  Were his ideas mysticism run amok? Did his mystic dreams merge into megalomania? Was Khomeini a `heretic?'  Baqer Moin (a former Islamic seminarian from Iran) makes a strong case that, in his last years, Khomeini's brand of fundamentalism was diametrically contrary to classical Shiism -- and in many ways un-Islamic.  Moin definitely paints a somewhat darker picture of everyday Iranian Islamic life than does, for example, Ann Armstrong, in her more sympathetic portraits.  (This book, incidentally, is cited in Karen Armstrong's \\"The Battle for God\\", her recent work about international fundamentalism).  Though the author carefully examines the Grand Ayatollah's motivations, one is left with an understanding that never seems to go deeper than the intellectual.  I suspect that this is not Moin's fault, but a reflection of Khomeini's cerebral inhumanity.  By the time the cleric first got into serious trouble with the Shah's regime (initially imprisoned -- then exiled first to Turkey, next to Iraq, and finally to France) he was already in his 60's.  (Khomeini `the old man' was wily, successful, and brilliant - he was certainly NOT likeable.)  This book is certainly an excellent first step to understanding modern Iran and the man who changed it so much.  I found this book so appealing that after I read it the first time, I went back and read it through a second time!  I thoroughly recommend it...a former Islamic seminarian from Iran) makes a strong case that, in his last years, Khomeini's brand of fundamentalism was diametrically contrary to classical Shiism -- and in many ways un-Islamic.   Moin definitely paints a somewhat darker picture of everyday Iranian Islamic life than does, for example, Ann Armstrong, in her more sympathetic portraits.  (This book, incidentally, is cited in Karen Armstrong's \\"The Battle for God\\", her recent work about international fundamentalism).  Though the author carefully examines the Grand Ayatollah's motivations, one is left with an understanding that never seems to go deeper than the intellectual.  I suspect that this is not Moin's fault, but a reflection of Khomeini's cerebral inhumanity.   By the time the cleric first got into serious trouble with the Shah's regime (initially imprisoned -- then exiled first to Turkey, next to Iraq, and finally to France) he was already in his 60's.  (Khomeini `the old man' was wily, successful, and brilliant - he was certainly NOT likeable.)  This book is certainly an excellent first step to understanding modern Iran and the man who changed it so much.  I found this book so appealing that after I read it the first time, I went back and read it through a second time!  I thoroughly recommend it...	2000-10-13
US	53075242	R3BLF4FNZW2ZIH	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	5	193	226	N	N	A small door into a vast new world...	It's a pity this book isn't a standard text for secondary school students.  The history of Islam is something all Westerners should learn in their teens - and don't.  Robinson's book is both a revelation and an indictment of our collective ignorance.<br />\\"Islam, A Short History\\" is densely written, and sympathetically describes the evolution not only of the Islamic world, but also of the practices and tenets of this major monotheistic religion.  Armstrong's tome not only dwells on the history of Islam, but also traces most major currents of thought within Dar al-Islam.  She examines the evolution of Sharia (Islamic law), Sufism, the Ismailis, Twelver Shiism, and Wahhabism, just to mention a few of the streams that comprise this river.  Best of all, this volume is written in plain English, simply written, incisive when need be, concise if not.<br />Ten maps show the ebb and flow of Islam:  The illustrate the early conquests, the growth of the Umayyad Empire, the disintegration of the Abbasid Empire, the extent of the Seljuk Empire, the geography of the Middle Eastern Crusader states (in the 12th century), the threatening Mongol world in the 13th century, The Safavid Empire, the Moghul Empire in India, and the Ottoman Empire.  The amirs, caliphs, ulamas, qadis (judges), and a host of other political, military, administrative, and religious figures are examined and put into their historical contexts.<br />\\"Islam, A Short History\\" contains a first-class 275-entry (!) chronology, a listing of 118 historical figures (!) from the history of Islam, a VERY exhaustive listing of additional readings (bibliography), and a good index.  (The only weak point is a somewhat truncated glossary of Arabic terms.)  Of the many books I have read about Islam, this is the one I would recommend as the first to read - it is a the perfect introduction to a fascinating (and almost unknown) new world.	2000-09-30
US	53075242	R9ZFINXR1HATB	1573926884	409513946	The Great Deception: And What Jesus Really Said and Did	Books	4	111	118	N	N	Looking through a glass darkly....	Dr. Gerd Ludemann has gained notoriety for being removed from the Evangelical Lutheran theological faculty of the University of Gottingen, Germany, after he decided to \\"renounce Christianity\\" in his missive \\"A Letter to Jesus\\".  The American edition of \\"The Great Deception\\" includes a 14-page preface describing the background of his removal, as well as the text of the nine-page letter.  Neither is directly relevant to this work's main topic, but both are fascinating background  ----  Ludemann asserts that \\"the process of falsifying and over painting the man Jesus, his words and actions, began in earliest Christianity and is already at an advanced stage in the New Testament.\\"  He examines numerous sayings and actions of the New Testament Jesus in the light of  his four criteria of inauthenticity, and five criteria of authenticity.  His goal: to uncover the \\"historical Jesus.\\"  Most of his criteria are benign.  But one of his criteria of inauthenticity would be objected to by many believers:  \\"those acts which presuppose that natural laws are broken.\\"  Professor Ludemann makes the nave eyebrow raising statement that: \\"Nowadays hardly anyone seriously assumes that Jesus in fact walked on the sea, stilled a storm, multiplied loaves, turned water into wind and raised the dead.  Rather, these narratives were credited to Jesus only after his death or his supposed resurrection in order to heighten his significance.\\"  (Perhaps in academic circles in Germany, NOT in everyday America!)  ----  Professor Ludemann clearly and repeatedly states that he sees theology as a scientific discipline based on solid scholarship.  His book does not disappoint.  He painstakingly documents his thesis.  He not only highlights discrepancies between different accounts of the same actions of Jesus, but also shows how and why the later Gospel writers (Matthew, Luke, and John) elaborated upon - and changed -- Mark's account.  He shows where all of them lifted, adapted, and inserted Old Testament passages and accounts into their accounts of Jesus' life.  He explains the theological issues that caused the alteration of narrative, anecdote, parable, and wording.  In short it this book is a provocative, and worthwhile read.  If theology is merely apologetics under another name, this is merely scandal.  If indeed theology is a scientific discipline searching for truth - then this is beyond doubt theologyment passages and accounts into their accounts of Jesus' life.  He explains the theological issues that caused the alteration of narrative, anecdote, parable, and wording.  In short it this book is a provocative, and worthwhile read.  If theology is merely apologetics under another name, this is merely scandal.   If indeed theology is a scientific discipline searching for truth - then this is beyond doubt theology	2000-09-29
US	53075242	R3HN25PPVDYTKJ	0879755725	637218845	Gospel Fictions	Books	5	132	142	N	N	A microscopic dissection of the Gospels....	The first of the Gospels (Mark) was written some 40 years after the death of Jesus (about 70 A.D.).  Some thirty years later, Luke and Matthew separately updated, expanded, and edited the first document (using another unknown source as well).  And after that, an anonymous writer put together the \\"Fourth Gospel\\", that of John. In Gospel Fictions, Randel Helms painstakingly, parable-by-parable, verse-by-verse, even word-by-word, analyzes the four Gospels. His thesis is: \\"The Gospels... are largely fictional accounts concerning an historical figure, Jesus of Nazareth, intended to create a life-enhancing understanding of his nature,\\" A simple instance:  After reading this work, one will not only be reminded that each Gospel quotes Jesus's last words on the cross differently, but -- one will have a better idea why each writer put different words into His mouth.  This book will disturb those (like myself) who assumed that the Gospels were substantially historical, with minor differences of fact and emphasis.  Helms paints a compelling picture of the exact opposite:  almost none of the parables happened in fact, many stories were borrowed from the Old Testament, and the authors had little interest in leaving any record of facts.  The only way to grasp the scope of Helm's challenge is to read this book.  It will leave you a more informed person, if a somewhat disillusioned one.	2000-09-28
US	53075242	R3FYBNI6CI7G91	0865540098	434800900	The New Birth: A Naturalistic View of Religious Conversion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A thought-provoking examination of conversion...	We all know persons whose lives have undergone drastic metamorphoses - sometimes more than once.  (Perhaps we ourselves have gone through the process!) Religious conversion, otherwise known as being \\"born again\\", is a fascinating phenomenon.  This book is a sincere, sympathetic, but objective study of the process.  Joe and Mary Ann Barnhart's clearly written volume scrutinizes John Henry Newman, converts to Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, Charles Colson, Buddha, St. Paul the Apostle, Ernest Renan, and others.  The Barnharts suggest \\"it is a mistake to conclude that the new birth is nothing but a delusion.\\"  Neither is it \\"a supernatural event or process, but a complex personal process with at least three layers or dimensions - the psychological, the social, and the cultural [including] theological and metaphysical doctrines.\\"  The authors draw from a refreshingly diverse range of thinkers to deliver insight after insight:  John Dewey, Henri Bergson, E. O. Wilson, Victor Frankl, Thomas Szasz, Emile Durkheim, and many others. This short (171 page) book is worth reading and rereading.  There is a lot here!	2000-09-26
US	53075242	RZYODRWL2FEPP	0810928930	217101132	Writing: The Story of Alphabets and Scripts	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Wide ranging: from excellent to awful...	This book is a visual delight.  Small (7\\"by 5\\"), thick (207 pp), and  heavy (10 oz), this book is divided into two sections.  The first  two-thirds, on heavy white clay stock, is lavishly illustrated in full  color.  Gorgeous! The last third (\\"Documents\\"), printed on standard paper,  also is heavily illustrated (but only in black and white!)  ----  Unfortunately, the text does not fully measure up to the images.  For  example, explanations the word \\"pictogram\\" are given to the point of  tedium!  The Documents section contains articles than approach gibberish.  For example, Hassan Massoudy's contribution (1986), about calligraphy: \\"The  moment when the calligrapher achieves total concentration represents the  beginning of a transport of energy that will help him to overcome all  oppressive difficulties.  He will seek, in the deepest part of himself, his  true path.\\" (Huh?)  On the other hand, from this book I learned what  calligrams are, that Arabic and Hebrew share an 18-letter alphabet, and  that hieroglyphs means \\"sacred writings\\".  After years of hearing about  \\"demotic script\\", I discovered that it is the common people's script.  I  learned how to trim a feather to make a quill pen.  I learned that Francois  Thureau-Dangin (1872- 1944) produced the first translation of Sumerian, the  earliest identified form of writing.  In short this book is an excellent  introduction to a variety of topics to be followed up later on one's own,  but a bit thin if one has an interest in any specific area.  As others have  noted, it is absolutely superlative in depicting alphabets, scripts,  typefaces, calligraphic styles, manuscripts, engravings, paintings, folios,  stellae, frescoes, papyruses, tablets, and so on.  It is a graphic feast  accompanied with a sometimes incomprehensibile text - a sad fate for a book  entitled \\"Writing\\".	2000-09-06
US	53075242	R1MJVOQHS5ZJIR	0394537785	716006333	Byzantium (I): The Early Centuries	Books	5	91	94	N	N	The perfect introduction to Byzantium!	If you love history, and exploring unknown territory, this book is a  winner! This historical narrative, complete with excellent and detailed  maps, useful family trees, an extensive bibliography, and even a \\"List of  Byzantine monuments surviving in Istanbul\\" (!)  makes one feel like one is  awaking from a coma.  John Julius Norwich states: \\"During my five years at  one of England's oldest and finest public schools, Byzantium seems to have  been the victim of a conspiracy of silence.  I cannot remember its being  mentioned, far less studied... \\" This book is the cure!  ---- Norwich's  narrative is witty, fascinating, and informative and makes clear the huge  debt Western European civilization owes to Byzantium, which shielded Europe  first from the Persians, and then from Islam.  (Look at your maps!)  The  first Christian emperor, Constantine the Great founded The Eastern Roman  Empire (aka Byzantium) in 330.  The Eastern Empire fell -- 1,123 years  later -- in 1453 (quite a big educational gap!)  This first volume  (Byzantium is a trilogy!) ends at the coronation of Charlemagne as Roman  Emperor of the West in the year 800.  Norwich demonstrates that the Roman  Empire never fell; it divided.  His story is that of the Eastern Empire,  but he fully examines Byzantine relations with the Papacy, Byzantium's  presence in Italy, and military and diplomatic actions involving the  remnants of the Western Roman Empire  ----- Lord Norwich's writing style  could be likened to a thread of gold (narrative) strung with countless  jewels (anecdotes).  This book covers five centuries and 88 rulers - and it  is full of fascinating vignettes.  It recapitulates the adoption of  Christianity by the Roman Empire. It details wave after wave of barbarian  invasion: the Vandals, the Huns, the Visigoths, the Ostrogoths, the Avars,  the Bulgars, the Lombards, the Slavs, and others.  It walks us through  military campaigns, battles, sieges, and massacres.  It tells chilling  stories of court intrigue.  It shows humans at their best and most bestial.  It recounts the long struggle with the Persian Empire (which seems as  current as the 20th century's battle with \\"the evil empire.\\").  And it  documents the rise of a new desert religion which swept out of Arabia and  swallowed the Byzantine eastern provinces just after the Persian threat had  been finally ended, i.e. Islam.  --- Norwich is witty and fun to read (be  prepared for subtlety and easily missed \\"zingers\\").  A word of warning -  Christians without a sense of humor and a thick hide may not like Norwich's  approach to issues of theology and church history.  Today many may find the  theological contests he scrutinizes seem absurd and esoteric.  His  depictions of religious figures are frequently NOT flattering.  But  believers and non-believers alike with a thirst for truth will find this  work to be a refreshing drink!  It is a book to be savored, and like any  classic, to be read again and again.ourt intrigue.  It shows humans at their best and most bestial.   It recounts the long struggle with the Persian Empire (which seems as  current as the 20th century's battle with \\"the evil empire.\\").  And it  documents the rise of a new desert religion which swept out of Arabia and  swallowed the Byzantine eastern provinces just after the Persian threat had  been finally ended, i.e. Islam.  --- Norwich is witty and fun to read (be  prepared for subtlety and easily missed \\"zingers\\").  A word of warning -  Christians without a sense of humor and a thick hide may not like Norwich's  approach to issues of theology and church history.  Today many may find the  theological contests he scrutinizes seem absurd and esoteric.  His  depictions of religious figures are frequently NOT flattering.  But  believers and non-believers alike with a thirst for truth will find this  work to be a refreshing drink!  It is a book to be savored, and like any  classic, to be read again and again.	2000-09-04
US	53075242	RH9CDFQOD9P3R	0449904490	444586736	Tolstoy	Books	5	101	109	N	N	Wilson's Tolstoy -- not the person we thought we knew...	A. N. Wilson writes idiosyncratic books.  The author states (p. 207),  \\"This book is the story of Tolstoy, as a writer and thinker.\\"  When I began  reading, I mistakenly thought I was reading biography.  As I plowed on I  discovered that Wilson's \\"Tolstoy\\" is only about 30 percent biography.  It  is also a book of literary criticism, 19th century Russian history,  character and psychological analysis, and ruminative essay.  In short, it  is \\"an intellectual history.\\"  Wilson includes all the helps a reader could  ask for: photographs (53 of them!), an extensive bibliography, and a handy  time line, (as well as the usual aids like the index, foreword, notes,  acknowledgements, and table of contents).<br />Wilson states: \\"This book is  primarily the story of a novelist... a great genius whose art grew out of his  three uneasy and irresolvable relationships: his relationship with God, ...  with women, ... with Russia.  In all cases, the relationships were stormy,  full of contradictions.\\"  Hmmpf, gross understatement!!  While many readers  may have no image whatsoever of Tolstoy, some (like me) visualized an icon:  a saintly, dreamy, old man at odds with a lowbrow wife, and persecuted by a  corrupt government.  How wrong I was!  His wife was for many years a full  partner in his productivity.  Only toward the end did Tolstoy and she  become each other's torturers.  The government forgave Tolstoy, a  well-connected aristocrat, much that would have (and did) put other  dissidents in czarist labor camps (e.g. poor Dostoyevsky!). [Though Tolstoy  was a contemporary of Dostoyevsky, the two men made a deliberate point of  never meeting each other.] - - - -  One of the fascinations of this book  is that one gets to know Leo Tolstoy \\"with all the warts\\".  He was no  saint, either as a selfish young man, or as an opinionated old fool.  In  fact, throughout his life he was an unpleasant person. His saving grace was  that he was a genius when it came to writing fiction!  Tolstoy shamelessly  took others' tragedies, and turned them into highly saleable fiction.  But  he did it so very, very well!<br />Tolstoy's life began three years after the  Decembrist Uprising of 1825, and ended seven years before the Russian  Revolution of 1917 - a fascinating period in Russian history!  His life  spanned the rule of four czars: Nicholas I (1825-1855), Alexander II  (1855-1881), Alexander III (1881-1894) and Nicholas II (1894-1917).  In a  nation run by an autocracy out of touch with its population, Tolstoy became  a folk hero simply for being a merely decent person (NOT quite a good  person, much less a saint!)  He was a college dropout.  He fought in  Chechnya with the czar's army.  He \\"sowed his wild oats\\" with hundreds of  young ladies, (and - predictably -- contracted gonorrhea).  He was a  spoiled brat.  In later years, the Orthodox Church excommunicated him.  His bizarre behavior led the czarist secret police to ransack his home to  see if he was a dangerous revolutionary  (he was, but not in the way they  thought!). When Tolstoy left his home and wife to die, at age 82, in a  railroad station, he did not die alone and forgotten.  An early film crew  was there!  Crowds of people recognized him and flocked around.  His wife  even made it there on a later train, just in time to be there before he  expired.  Leo Tolstoy died in the midst of a \\"media circus\\"!<br /> Wilson, in  his own style, brings all these disparate threads together.  His tapestry  is fascinatingly beautiful.<br />And of course, Wilson makes his own  points - trenchantly! For example, regarding Tolstoy's decision to live  according to the Gospels, Wilson remarks: \\"It is possible to read  [Tolstoy's last] thirty years as an extraordinary demonstration of the fact  that the Sermon on the Mount is an unlivable ethic, a counsel of craziness  which, if followed to its relentless conclusion as Tolstoy tried to follow  it will lead to the reverse of peace and harmony and spiritual calm which  are normally thought of as the concomitants of the religious quest.  Tolstoy's religion is ultimately the most searching criticism of  Christianity which there is.  He shows that it does not work.\\"<br />I left  this book with a burning desire to read more of Tolstoy.  This phenomenon  always happens to me when I read A.N. Wilson.  Unfortunately, reading  Tolstoy's opus would be quite impractical: his collected works run to 90  volumes!  So now I must choose!itual calm which  are normally thought of as the concomitants of the religious quest.   Tolstoy's religion is ultimately the most searching criticism of  Christianity which there is.  He shows that it does not work.\\"   <br />I left  this book with a burning desire to read more of Tolstoy.  This phenomenon  always happens to me when I read A.N. Wilson.  Unfortunately, reading  Tolstoy's opus would be quite impractical: his collected works run to 90  volumes!  So now I must choose!	2000-08-29
US	53075242	R3NSGZJJKFMTFT	0803277873	851384616	Norway 1940 (World War II)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Basis for a great movie script?	On April 9, 1940, the Germans attacked Norway - two months later, the war in Norway was over.  As Kersaudy points out (p.227) \\"the only substantial -  and even decisive - advantage that Great Britain was to draw from [the]  ill-fated undertaking was the replacement of Neville Chamberlain by Winston  Churchill.  Indeed, nothing other than the dismal story of setbacks  suffered in Norway could have led to the resignation of Chamberlain before  10 May 1940\\".  Zeroing in on a very small, but strategically important  theater of World War II, Kersaudy paints a tragic-comic picture of the  conflict in excruciating detail.  The valiant Norwegian military forces  under General Ruge were hamstrung by their own incompetent politicians, and  \\"allies\\" (?) who were worse than useless.  The British squabbled with the  French, and then the British generals and politicians quarreled with each  other.  New plans were substituted for old plans while the old plans were  in the midst of execution.  Polish `mountain troops' who had never seen a  mountain were sent to the Narvik theater, as well as French Chasseurs  Alpins who were short of skis and snowshoes.  Ships were loaded with the  wrong supplies, in illogical sequences, and diverted to locations where  their contents were not needed.  --- None of this should have been too  surprising.  In the introduction to \\"Norway 1940\\", Kersaudy states: \\"The  French... could find in their \\"Dictionnaire des arts et m&eacute;tiers\\" a rather  peculiar map of Scandinavia:  Sweden remained nameless, but Norway was  called... Sweden!  The Germans did little better, since the capital of Norway  was nowhere to be seen on their maps...  In 1940 the [British] Foreign  Secretary, Lord Halifax, glancing at a map of Scandinavia, was still  mistaking the Norwegian border for a railway line.\\"  ---- This book is  history at its best: detailed, incisive, with context as well as  personalities.  At times detailing the action on an hour-by-hour basis, it  could easily be the basis of a fantastic movie script - for much of the  action seems cinematic.  \\"Norway 1940\\" contains a wealth of very  comprehensive campaign maps and well-selected photographs, of military  action as well as portraits of `the players'.  (One of the most fascinating  candid photos is Norwegian King Haakon and his son Price Olav running  through a snowy field for cover during a German air attack on April 11th!)  Take time to read this book - it is well worth it!  (P.S. Have a pad and  pen close by; keeping track of the players and the action requires more  memory than most will be able to muster).sily be the basis of a fantastic movie script - for much of the  action seems cinematic.   \\"Norway 1940\\" contains a wealth of very  comprehensive campaign maps and well-selected photographs, of military  action as well as portraits of `the players'.  (One of the most fascinating  candid photos is Norwegian King Haakon and his son Price Olav running  through a snowy field for cover during a German air attack on April 11th!)   Take time to read this book - it is well worth it!  (P.S. Have a pad and  pen close by; keeping track of the players and the action requires more  memory than most will be able to muster).	2000-08-06
US	53075242	RASVBI152WPW1	0393047458	42081972	God's Funeral: The Decline of Faith in Western Civilization	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A magnificent overview: the idea of God in the 19th Century!	This is a book to curl up with in front of a fireplace on a series of snowy winter nights.  The author brings his skills as a novelist,  biographer, and a journalist together - and not to \\"make a point\\" or to  \\"prove a thesis\\".  This is a comfy, rambling, fascinating exploration of  19th Century thought, mixing anecdote, philosophical reflection,  theological theory, and \\"bon mot's.  The language fits the topic.  Perhaps  the closest to a focus Wilson comes is when (pg. 13), he states that \\"God's  funeral was not, as many in the nineteenth century might have thought, the  end of a phase of human intellectual history.  It was the withdrawal of a  great Love-object.\\"  After reading, underlining, and re-reading this work,  I'm still not sure where Wilson stands on many of the issues he raises -  but I'm glad he produced this smorgasbord!  -- \\"God's Funeral\\" introduces  us to hundreds of 19th century thinkers (The author is English; his focus  lingers on those from England!).  They range from the still famous (Marx,  Darwin, John Stuart Mill, and Kant), to figures out of high school  literature courses (Matthew Arnold, George Eliot, Swinburne, and the  Rosettis), to such forgotten's as Auguste Comte, Herbert Spencer,  Feuerbach, David Strauss, and Benjamin Jowett.  The greatness of this  volume is that it makes one want to read the books that these people wrote.  (Finding some of these tomes may prove harder than one would expect; it  took me months to get a 102-year old copy of Thomas Carlyle's \\"The French  Revolution\\"!)  Wilson is a man of strong opinions.  For example, he states  of Herbert Spencer: \\"No real philosopher today has the smallest interest in  him, since his use of language is so inexact that it is usually difficult  to know precisely what he means.\\"  About Tolstoy, obsessed in later years  with \\"the famous injunctions not to hoard up treasure on earth, and not to  take revenge upon enemies\\" Wilson writes that he was \\"hated (and eventually  excommunicated) by the Orthodox Church precisely because he showed that if  these texts were acted upon, even partially, European civilization, with  its aggressive nation states, its greedy capitalism, its ruthless pursuit  of laissez-faire economics, its empire-building, its religious  conservatism, would collapse.\\"  A.N. Wilson does NOT waffle!  [His harsh  words about creationism and American fundamentalists in the Preface have  certainly hit some nerves!]  But Catholics (devout and lapsed alike) will  find the final chapter, about Modernism, fascinating.  The \\"modern heresy\\"  of Modernism, following the declaration of Papal infallibility in 1870 is  an area seldom examined by modern Catholics, even a university level.  Wilson gives a fascinating introduction to this neglected period of Church  history (1890-1910).  -- Oh, incidentally, one nice touch (thank you, dear  publisher!) is the inclusion, in the middle of the book, of 38 photos and  engravings (mostly portraits).  -- Wilson ends his book (p. 354) with a  clarion call that should cheer the religious: \\"...the God-idea, so important  a part of human consciousness, has not been discarded with anything like  the readiness which the late Victorians would have predicted.  One of the  most extraordinary things about the twentieth century has been the palpable  and visible strength of the Christian thing, the Christian idea.  ... Simone  Weil, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Nicholas Berdayev and Teilhard de Chardin were  waiting in the wings....\\"d) by the Orthodox Church precisely because he showed that if  these texts were acted upon, even partially, European civilization, with  its aggressive nation states, its greedy capitalism, its ruthless pursuit  of laissez-faire economics, its empire-building, its religious  conservatism, would collapse.\\"  A.N. Wilson does NOT waffle!   [His harsh  words about creationism and American fundamentalists in the Preface have  certainly hit some nerves!]  But Catholics (devout and lapsed alike) will  find the final chapter, about Modernism, fascinating.  The \\"modern heresy\\"  of Modernism, following the declaration of Papal infallibility in 1870 is  an area seldom examined by modern Catholics, even a university level.   Wilson gives a fascinating introduction to this neglected period of Church  history (1890-1910).   -- Oh, incidentally, one nice touch (thank you, dear  publisher!) is the inclusion, in the middle of the book, of 38 photos and  engravings (mostly portraits).  -- Wilson ends his book (p. 354) with a  clarion call that should cheer the religious: \\"...the God-idea, so important  a part of human consciousness, has not been discarded with anything like  the readiness which the late Victorians would have predicted.  One of the  most extraordinary things about the twentieth century has been the palpable  and visible strength of the Christian thing, the Christian idea.  ... Simone  Weil, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Nicholas Berdayev and Teilhard de Chardin were  waiting in the wings....\\"	2000-08-05
US	53075242	R3QQ7NRKD9THKA	0674437756	44643886	Hypatia of Alexandria (Revealing Antiquity)	Books	5	62	65	N	N	Going behind the curtain . . .	Those who have an interest in the Fourth Century are familiar with the name Hypatia of Alexandria.  Unfortunately she has become a figure of legend and myth.  Maria Dzielska's small, short book (106 pages, each about  5-1/2\\" x 8-1/2\\" ) first examines the various persons that made her a myth,  as well as their motivations.  It then goes to the source documents, sorts  through the credibility of each, and then redraws our picture of Hypatia.  (For example, most encyclopedias give Hypatia's date of birth as about 370.  Dzielska builds a strong case that she was born about 15 years earlier  than that, and was in her 60's when she was murdered).  This book excels  in distinguishing fact from fiction - in other words it is a work of  historical research.  Dzielska also points out where her knowledge ends and  her inferences begin. This virtue - once known as humility - also  contributes to the value of this book.  As one would expect, it has an  annotated bibliography (\\"Sources\\"), is fully footnoted, and includes a good  index.  Those whose interest in Hypatia involves \\"her meaning\\" may be  disappointed; those who want the truth about her will find this a useful  piece of research and analysis.  Maria Dzielska's book could be used as a  sourcebook on HOW historical figures are appropriated for the political or  religious agendas of persons less interested in \\"the facts\\" than \\"making a  point\\".  This alone makes it of wider interest than it might otherwise  appear.	2000-07-30
US	53075242	R1T9O42MZADQJM	069100143X	378534443	A Diary of Darkness	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Within the gloomy anthill, Kiyoshi documents its decline....	This diary is aptly named.  The mood is somber, and the images are distorted, like those in a nightmare.  I used to be skeptical about claims that the Japanese people would have fought an American invasion in the  streets, and that millions could have been killed in the carnage.  After  reading this journal, I'm inclined to believe it could have happened.  Patriotism and solidarity hijacked by fools and fanatics took Japan down a  long tunnel, chronicled by Kiyoshi. Many Japanese were lost in a haze of  self-deception.  Kiyoshi contemporaneously describes the conflict between  the Japanese Army and Navy - Japan was certainly not united, though few  would speak this truth out loud.  Kiyoshi documents the capacity of  bureaucrats bent on impressing their higher-ups to speak silly nonsense;  his disgust is palpable.  He reveals the extent of famine in the final  years, when his own most precious resource is a garden plot.  Kiyoshi's  description of the April 16, 1945, bombing of Tokyo captures facts and a  mood: \\"The newly built factories of Shimomaruko had become nothing more  than burned fields.  In some places we heard thumps and the explosions of  time-delayed bombs. ... I saw the burning of the Kawasaki industrial area and  Shimomaruko and was astonished at the totality of the destructive power of  modern war.  Now I see its burned remains.  This all happened in a period  of less than ten hours.  The electric trains stop, and electricity no  longer flows.  The water system and gas are halted.  According to Akita's  account, people who fled to the riverbank of the Tama were killed by bombs,  and corpses without heads and trunks were transported away.\\" Also startling  are his simple sentences announcing major events.  (Fri, April 13):\\"There  is a report that President Roosevelt has died of a cerebral hemorrhage.\\"  (Mon, April 23): \\"The Red Army is invading Berlin.  The Nazis will die in  suicidal stand to the bitter end.  Is such a style of warfare to be  praised?\\"  (Wed, May 2): \\"There is a report that Hitler is dead.  It has  been communicated that Mussolini has also been murdered.\\"  Kiyoshi (who  lived for several years in the U.S. before the end of World War I), never  saw the end of the Second World War.  The last entry in his diary was May  5, 1945.  He died that month of pneumonia, caused by malnutrition.  This  book is rightly seen as a classic.  It is a powerful warning about the  consequences of arrogance and self-delusion.d?\\"  (Wed, May 2): \\"There is a report that Hitler is dead.  It has  been communicated that Mussolini has also been murdered.\\"   Kiyoshi (who  lived for several years in the U.S. before the end of World War I), never  saw the end of the Second World War.  The last entry in his diary was May  5, 1945.  He died that month of pneumonia, caused by malnutrition.    This  book is rightly seen as a classic.  It is a powerful warning about the  consequences of arrogance and self-delusion.	2000-07-25
US	53075242	R1J5HZR8O5WF5X	0801862183	378783572	Constantine and the Bishops: The Politics of Intolerance (Ancient Society and History)	Books	5	67	70	N	N	An Excellent Political History of 4th Century Christianity	A book on the fourth century that cites Saul Alinsky and Richard Nixon is not a typical history!  The reason is that \\"Constantine and the Bishops\\" is as much about political science as history.  Using the usual traditional  sources, Drake goes further and examines agendas; the people he reveals are  refreshingly understandable.  In fact, I kept finding myself thinking: \\"Of  course!\\", and \\"That reminds me of [name]\\", and \\"That's the same kind of  mistake I might have made\\", etc.  Constantine comes across as a very  believable person trying desperately to bring peace and order to an empire  plagued by special interests and external challenges (so what else is  new! ).  For example, regards special interests, Drake points out that  Constantine briefly transferred some legal functions to the bishops.  The  reason was corruption in the legal profession mirroring today's problems in  the legal system (i.e. money buying favorable decisions).  How  contemporary!  ----- In terms of history, this work excels because it  offers reasonable perspectives within which events take place.  Instead of  a mountain of facts, Drake selects currents within which they make sense.  The \\"Big Events\\" of this period were: The Great Persecution (303-313) by  Emperor Diocletian , the reign of Constantine (324-337), the brief  counter-revolution of Emperor Julian \\"the Apostate\\" (361-263), and the  final conquest of power by the Christian bishops under Emperor Theodosius I  (379-395).  The history in this book is however very detailed.  It reaches  back to the decline of the Roman Senate under Augustus Caesar three  centuries before, and looks ahead to the ratification of the Theodosian  Code in 438.  Even without much knowledge of the fourth century, a reader  will finish with an excellent grounding in the period.  Over 51 pages of  footnotes, a list of 118 primary sources and 43 PAGES of secondary sources  (!), are backed up by an excellent index.  The enquiring reader will have  no shortage of further reading to pursue!  -----  One interesting thought  that Drake comes back to repeatedly is that \\"the ancient state was built on  the premise that organized human activity was needed to ensure that  [divinity] remained benevolent to the community.\\"  He points out another  fact that was brushed under the carpet in later times:  many pagans were  monotheists  before the final victory of Christianity, and that Constantine  may well have been a monotheist well before he accepted Christianity.  Drake shows that the failure of the Great Persecution was due in part to  the fact that pagan and Christian neighbors usually got along rather well,  contrary to myth.  Constantine had no desire to fail (as had Diocletian)  by encouraging conflict;  Constantine's challenge was to keep the Christian  church from tearing itself apart.  Within the church, a centralized  bureaucracy had not yet emerged, and the bishops reined supreme.  Some (not  all!) were obsessed with a search for \\"heretics\\".  Once Christianity  \\"became popular\\" a flood of new converts, many with little religious  motivation, threatened to swamp the church.  For those who had suffered  under Diocletion the stampede of opportunists was - at best - a mixed  blessing!  Constantine constantly came down against the exclusionists,  favoring an inclusive approach.  In fact the evolution of Christianity  into an intolerant movement, Drake points out, was not inevitable:  internal conflicts had more to do its intolerance (later projected outward)  than anything else.  Julian's brief counter-revolution just fed internal  paranoia and strengthened the hand of the extremists within Christianity.  (How familiar!  Radicalization of a movement due to unsuccessful external  persecution combined with internal \\"purges\\" of deviants!)  This is an  excellent volume.  If I were to recommend a \\"first read\\" for those wanting  to understand fourth century Christianity, this would be The Book!of further reading to pursue!  -----  One interesting thought  that Drake comes back to repeatedly is that \\"the ancient state was built on  the premise that organized human activity was needed to ensure that  [divinity] remained benevolent to the community.\\"  He points out another  fact that was brushed under the carpet in later times:  many pagans were  monotheists  before the final victory of Christianity, and that Constantine  may well have been a monotheist well before he accepted Christianity.   Drake shows that the failure of the Great Persecution was due in part to  the fact that pagan and Christian neighbors usually got along rather well,  contrary to myth.   Constantine had no desire to fail (as had Diocletian)  by encouraging conflict;  Constantine's challenge was to keep the Christian  church from tearing itself apart.  Within the church, a centralized  bureaucracy had not yet emerged, and the bishops reined supreme.  Some (not  all!) were obsessed with a search for \\"heretics\\".  Once Christianity  \\"became popular\\" a flood of new converts, many with little religious  motivation, threatened to swamp the church.  For those who had suffered  under Diocletion the stampede of opportunists was - at best - a mixed   blessing!  Constantine constantly came down against the exclusionists,  favoring an inclusive approach.   In fact the evolution of Christianity  into an intolerant movement, Drake points out, was not inevitable:   internal conflicts had more to do its intolerance (later projected outward)  than anything else.  Julian's brief counter-revolution just fed internal  paranoia and strengthened the hand of the extremists within Christianity.   (How familiar!  Radicalization of a movement due to unsuccessful external  persecution combined with internal \\"purges\\" of deviants!)   This is an  excellent volume.  If I were to recommend a \\"first read\\" for those wanting  to understand fourth century Christianity, this would be The Book!	2000-07-23
US	53075242	R3RD4SNZIKICF8	0773485724	82610607	The Case of Michael Servetus 1511-1553 : The Turning Point in the Struggle for Freedom of Conscience (Texts and Studies in Religion, Vol 74)	Books	4	26	29	N	N	An enormous and fascinating compendium...	This 402-page volume is very densely written. (It is more than 235,00 words in length!) Let it be made clear most of this book is NOT a biography of Michael Servetus (1511-1553).  That is only one-third of the volume...  It is a wide-ranging, mind-bogglingly detailed, idiosyncratic history of an  idea: freedom of conscience.  ---- The first third of the work, entitled  \\"Institutionalized repression of freedoms: religion, thought, and  conscience, from Constantine to Vatican II and beyond\\" is historical in  nature.  Covering more than 1,000 years of history in 150 pages is a  daunting task, and the general reader can best approach this overview as  that --  as a guide to `further reading I'd better find time to do.'  Nonetheless there's a lot of fascinating material here.  Just one of scores  of gems strewn through this section of Dr. Hiller's work is the text of the  first Imperial decree (43 years AFTER Constantine's death!) making the  Christian the obligatory religion of the realm.  It calls non-conformists  \\"demented and insane\\".  To give you an idea of the Dr. Hiller's writing  style, let's look at page 102 (selected at random), describing Mohammed:  \\"He was born in Mecca of the Quraaysh tribe, and since he was orphaned  at  an early age, he was reared by his uncle, Abu Talib, a teacher.  In his  youth he had a chance to travel extensively with the trading caravans....\\"  Direct and to the point! Another example, from page 323: \\"Calvin  differentiates between two types of victims of religious persecution: those  who are martyrs and those who are blasphemers.  Though both meet similar  punishment, they differ in their offense:  the just and righteous zealot  follows knowledge, but the perverse and unconscionable one follows temerity  and blind impulse.\\"  Again, telegraphic in style ----  Part II (about  one-third of  the work) directly deals with Servetus's fascinating life and  death, in the 16th century. Caught between the Catholic Church (during the  Inquisition) and fanatic John Calvin, Protestant pioneer,  this man was  considered a dangerous heretic by both camps.  John Calvin had the  satisfaction of having him burnt alive in 1553.  Much like the millions who  perished under Stalin 400 years later, his crime was telling people what he  really thought.  Like all true believers, Calvin couldn't stand the fact  that someone disagreed with him - and took the usual route:  extermination.  ----  The last third of Dr. Hiller's book is entitled \\"The significance of  Servetus' supreme sacrifice, the bankruptcy of post-Nicaean Christianity,  and the struggle for freedom of conscience.\\"  It examines the lives of  Sebastian Castellio, Bernardino  Ochino, Laelius Socinus, Matteo Gribaldi,  and others.  Dr. Hiller makes his point in his Preface: \\"Michael Servetus  [was] the central figure in history whose martyrdom initiated new trends in  religious mentality and inspired Sebastian Castellio to his critical  analysis of the pervasive repression of religious thought and intellectual  investigation.  The ferment that Servetus and Castellio originated  eventually found its expression first in the religious movement of  Socinianism and later in the Enlightenment.\\"  Whether or not one agrees  with this thesis, the mass of fascinating material he has assembled in  overwhelming and fascinating!sition) and fanatic John Calvin, Protestant pioneer,  this man was  considered a dangerous heretic by both camps.  John Calvin had the  satisfaction of having him burnt alive in 1553.  Much like the millions who  perished under Stalin 400 years later, his crime was telling people what he  really thought.  Like all true believers, Calvin couldn't stand the fact  that someone disagreed with him - and took the usual route:  extermination.   ----  The last third of Dr. Hiller's book is entitled \\"The significance of  Servetus' supreme sacrifice, the bankruptcy of post-Nicaean Christianity,  and the struggle for freedom of conscience.\\"  It examines the lives of  Sebastian Castellio, Bernardino   Ochino, Laelius Socinus, Matteo Gribaldi,  and others.  Dr. Hiller makes his point in his Preface: \\"Michael Servetus  [was] the central figure in history whose martyrdom initiated new trends in  religious mentality and inspired Sebastian Castellio to his critical  analysis of the pervasive repression of religious thought and intellectual  investigation.  The ferment that Servetus and Castellio originated  eventually found its expression first in the religious movement of  Socinianism and later in the Enlightenment.\\"  Whether or not one agrees  with this thesis, the mass of fascinating material he has assembled in  overwhelming and fascinating!	2000-07-02
US	53075242	RK87F70HPS61M	039304923X	245419187	Karl Marx: A Life	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Anecdotes and humor -- but a melancholy tale...	This book is chilling reading.  It is difficult to put one's finger on the reason why.  Perhaps because Karl Marx (1818-1883) was always a distant person - even while he lived  As Marxism flickers out, Wheen takes us back  in time to find the \\"historical Marx\\". A solid grounding in 19th century  European history will make reading this work a lot more interesting.  Wheen's book is whimsical, eclectic, comprehensive, and humorous, but it  presupposes a knowledge of the 19th and 20th century European revolutionary  and political history which is rapidly fading from our 21st century minds.  This book dwells as much on Marx's family life as on his political life.  ----Wheen's work is filled with fascinating anecdotes.  It does not explain  Karl Marx, but this man was so complicated that no one (including himself)  may have ever understood his motivations.  He was a family man, deeply  devoted to his wife and six children, four of whom died before he did.  (The other two who took their own lives!)  On the other hand he quarreled  with and was hated by scores - if not hundreds - of former friends.  Karl  Marx was not a likeable man.  This book uncovers hundreds of gems about his  life that most persons who studied \\"Marxism\\" or \\"Communism\\" would never  stumble on:  for example, the moves in a chess game he played in 1867 (he  lost!).  That he was precocious, to the point of being expelled from  Prussia, France, and Belgium - each time by royal order - before he reached  30 years of age.  While many are vaguely aware of Marx's friendship with  Friedrich Engels, how many know that it began when Marx was 26 and Engels  was 23?  Or that Engels was one of only 11 persons present at Marx's  funeral 37 years later!  Wheen has done an excellent job on a very  difficult topic!	2000-06-25
US	53075242	R2BG5C980M003A	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	A good read -- not a great book	This is a relatively short book, considering the topic. That and the writing style limit it.  Regards the overwrought style consider some 'purple prose' from page 33: &quot;everyone in the control room froze,  hypnotized...&quot;; &quot;This could not be happening!&quot;  &quot;With  ferocious force, tons of sea were shooting into the engine rooms.&quot;  Though many find alliteration effective, I feel that it reeks of 'TV  journalism'.  In many places &quot;The Terrible Hours&quot; gave me the  feeling I had dropped into a 'TV docu-drama'.  Another instance of Maas's  irritating writing style: (p.145) &quot;Robert Robertson was every bit as  baffled by the high induction valve's failure to close...&quot;  Whenever  someone asserts that another individual was thinking this, or feeling that,  my own reaction is -- document it!  A quote from Robertson would have  established how he felt and what he was thinking, and would have been more  convincing than the author's assertion.  This is not a bad book. Though  others may disagree, I did NOT find the lack of illustrations, schematics,  and photographs to be a big problem.  The technical terms made sense in  context.  In fact, since I had never before read anything about this  pioneer submarine rescue, I found this work to be quite a good overview and  introduction. But I finished reading it feeling that it was not as good as  it could have been.	2000-06-24
US	53075242	R2R89072RLVB5J	055356076X	425643422	Fortunate Son: The Autobiography Of Lewis B.Puller,Jr.	Books	5	93	93	N	Y	A stunning autobiography ... a tragic tale	This gut-wrenching book is five stories. Each is fascinating...  The first is that of a young man growing up in the shadow of his famous father, Marine Corps General &quot;Chesty&quot; Puller, &quot;the most decorated  man in Marine Corps history.&quot;  The second is that of a young marine  corps lieutenant leading a 40-man platoon in combat, trying (sometimes  unsuccessfully) to keep everyone alive.  He was doing what he thought was  right. His tour ends in disaster; he is med-evaced out with horrific  injuries. The third story is his hospitalization -- missing legs, missing  fingers, he fights through a pain-ridden recovery.  The fourth tale is his  humiliating 1978 defeat in a Congressional race against Republican Paul  Trible.  The final story is Lewis Puller's battle against alcoholism.  &quot;Fortunate Son&quot; was published in 1991, and won the Pulitzer Prize  for Biography in 1992. But in the alcohol war, this book just marked the  eye of the storm. Shortly after it was honored with the prize, Lewis Puller  relapsed into alcoholism; he and his wife separated. And on May 11, 1994,  Lewis B. Puller, Jr., picked up a gun and killed himself. ---- Sometimes  (to boomers) the Vietnam era and its aftermath now seem dreamlike; Puller's  book is an icy hook, pulling us into the river of times past. It was VERY  real! Throughout this book, the thought keeps recurring, this was a man who  trusted too much, too many, too often, and was destroyed.  He was indeed a  tragic figure. There are many lessons to be learned from his life... but I  suspect every reader will take different ones from this work...	2000-06-19
US	53075242	R28ERIR6VAISUE	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	3	15	32	N	Y	A Cornucopia -- a mixed bag of fruit	This book is disturbing.  It convincingly demonstrates that webs of relationships have many positive yields - and that is threatening to the &quot;silent majority&quot; of Americans who have been victims of other  persons, and who avoid others when possible.  This book is filled with  graphs and documentation showing (a) the decline in social participation,  and (b) the negative outcomes of that slide.  Unfortunately, it sometimes  is so filled with facts that it is difficult to sort the forest from the  trees.  The author also freely draws conclusions as he goes  (fact-opinion-fact-opinion).  His evaluations sometimes seem contradictory.  On p. 22 he states &quot;Social capital... can be directed toward  malevolent, antisocial purposes.&quot;  On p. 287 he asks &quot;Does social  capital have salutary effects on individuals, communities, or even entire  nations?  Yes, an impressive and growing body of research suggests that  civic connections help make us healthy, wealthy, and wise.&quot;  This work  is riddled with this variety of internal contradiction.  But even so, it is  a goldmine of information.  Those of us who fled to cities to avoid the  tight-knit relationships we smothered under in our Pleasantville home towns  should read it -- maybe we made a mistake.  On the other hand, this work  does not make me want to join a church to increase my lifespan, nor to  start holding barbecues for people who live in my neighborhood  so our  crime rate will go down.  Other readers may not feel that way....	2000-06-18
US	53075242	R3LBPEE9VESMRT	0151003688	437234577	When Jesus Became God: The Epic Fight over Christ's Divinity in the Last Days of Rome	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Interplay of power politics and ideology in the 4th century	Like moles emerging from their tunnels, the early Christians came out from covert 'survival mode' after Diocletian's Great Persecution  -- and almost immediately started fractioning.  Much like Islam, Communism, and other  ideologies, the factions engaged in violent internicene warfare.  The  author, Jewish and a professor of conflict resolution, brings a unique  viewpoint to this fascinating century of Christian history.  He  convincingly explains WHY the Arian-Nicene split developed and why common  people cared.  He makes one sympathize with Roman emperors who sometimes  lost patience with their &quot;squabbling children&quot;.  (As various  bishops tried to utilize the civil powers to vanquish their religious foes,  one is reminded of children going to Mom and Dad  to 'settle'  disagreements!) The fourth century was a trying one for the Empire, split  time and again, with problems both on the northern (barbarian) and eastern  (Persian) frontiers.  Rubenstein paints the characters of the parties in  lifelike four dimensions -- not only major characters like Arius, Bishop  Athanatius, Emperor Constantine, Julian the Apostate, Emperor Theodosius,  etc. -- but also scores of minor actors.  Christians today chant the words  of the Creed of Constantinople, &quot;I believe in Jesus Christ, the  only-begotten Son of God, begotten from the Father before all ages, light  from light, true God from true God, begotten not made, of one substance  with the Father, through Whom all things came into existence, and in the  Holy Spirit, the Lord and giver of life, who proceeds from the Father, and  Who, with the Father and the Son is together worshipped and  glorified....&quot;  Only a few handful realize the number of dead  Christians, the riots, the politicking, and the number of councils lying  under these words.  Rubenstein brings the dry sticks of theological dogma  into flaming reality by magnificently re-creating the historical matrix  from which they grew.  The Arians (like modern Unitarians) beleived Christ  to be a very holy man -- no more.  They believed Jesus would be no guide to  men if he were God, for what man can hope to emulate the mysterious,  unknowable, and mighty Lord God.  The Nicenes could not believe that the  Arians could reduce the Master to nothing more than another  man-in-the-street:  surely he was man (obviously) but -- also God! In a  time when the Eastern (Greek portion) of the Mediterranean basin was  entirely Christian, and mostly Arian, the Arians were quite powerful.  Europe was a backwater, populated by &quot;hicks&quot; (paganii) who had  only recently accepted Christianity. But ultimately, as the Roman Empire  (in fits and starts) disintegrated, the optimistic Arian view of man as  perfectible lost out to the pessimestic Nicene outlook, which looked to a  divine Jesus to save men from themselves.  Well before the time Islam swept  across Middle East two hundred years later, Arianism had been defeated.  Jesus had been promoted by his followers to God-head.  A cacaphony of  contending bishops was being welded into hierarchical structures later  known as the Roman Catholic and Orthodox churches. Rubenstein's book is a  fascinating telling of the historic tale!modern Unitarians) beleived Christ  to be a very holy man -- no more.  They believed Jesus would be no guide to  men if he were God, for what man can hope to emulate the mysterious,  unknowable, and mighty Lord God.  The Nicenes could not believe that the  Arians could reduce the Master to nothing more than another  man-in-the-street:  surely he was man (obviously) but -- also God! In a  time when the Eastern (Greek portion) of the Mediterranean basin was  entirely Christian, and mostly Arian, the Arians were quite powerful.   Europe was a backwater, populated by &quot;hicks&quot; (paganii) who had  only recently accepted Christianity. But ultimately, as the Roman Empire  (in fits and starts) disintegrated, the optimistic Arian view of man as  perfectible lost out to the pessimestic Nicene outlook, which looked to a  divine Jesus to save men from themselves.  Well before the time Islam swept  across Middle East two hundred years later, Arianism had been defeated.   Jesus had been promoted by his followers to God-head.  A cacaphony of  contending bishops was being welded into hierarchical structures later  known as the Roman Catholic and Orthodox churches. Rubenstein's book is a  fascinating telling of the historic tale!	2000-06-11
US	53075242	R3T4HE6SXZF9YD	483810183X	862979733	Bamboo in Kyoto	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shimmering Beauty on Each Page	Jade, lime, emerald greens... Azure and robins-egg blues... Gold, straw, aspen yellows.... Snow white... This book captures bamboo in each of the four seasons.  I love bamboo, but even if I did not -- wow!  This small (8  x 7) paperback is a visual feast (almost no words).  Each photograph is a  gemstone, glistening on a field of porcelain white paper.  If your life is  painful or tedious, this work can make it go away for a few minutes.  If  you want to know why some people go ga-ga about this form of giant grass,  take a look.  Well worth its modest price!	2000-03-25
US	53075242	R1XGMMSO1IXIM	0966102630	635589933	At Least in Hell the Christians Won't Harass Me	Books	5	16	20	N	N	This book makes one think -- and my head still hurts!!	Reading this book is like riding a roller coaster: you may like the ride, you may not like the ride, but you'll get off a different person, and you  won't forget the experience!  As I read the reviews here, they sounded like  critiques of different books, but this work IS several things wrapped into  one package...  I haven't taken the time to pull apart the formal logic  piece by piece (a line by line analysis would be fascintating!). Sadly, I  don't have the calculus background to follow the mathematics. But like a  good statistics textbook, this volume leaves me with a palpable desire to  get the skills needed to absorb (or rationally reject) Knight's arguments  in this fascinating and frustrating book... A note about the writing style  jarring sometimes, a bit amusing always, but above all it shows a fresh and  lively mind overactively at work. The task he has tackled is one which an  academic approach would have turned into deadening drudgery.  In short,  it's fun to read! Several friends (mostly engineers and computer geeks!)  are in line to read my copy! If they weren't so cheap, they would buy  copies of their own from amazon.com! (P.S.  Christians and other theists  will not enjoy this volume and should probably read Leviticus instead).	1999-08-21
US	53075242	RFSQSNGFSSRB9	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Truth and Emotion	Since few of the &quot;reviews&quot; of this book seem to examine the book itself, I find myself (likewise) freed of that constraint.  Smith's work seems to examine god as a truth/untruth issue; several reviewers examine  the issue in terms of emotions (my love exists/doesn't exist).  From a  rational viewpoint, the fact that one is wildly enraptured with a god has  nothing to do with whether it exists or not.  Children are simply bonkers  over Santa Claus, but only an enthusiast would therefore state that Santa  Claus exists.  Obviously Santa exists in the child's head; the  rationalist's question is:  &quot;Does he exist OUTSIDE the child's  head?&quot;  For those of us who can't understand why so many people even  care if god exists or not it is slightly amusing to see such emotion  devoted to the esoteric issue (on both sides).  Theists have to answer  several issues beyond whether god exists if they expect us to get excited  about the issue:  Does god know it exists? Does god know it created things  outside itself?  Does god have any emotions (being without a nervous  system)?  Can god perceive (being without eyes, ears, nerves, brain, etc)?  If god does know he created man, does he really care?  And if god exists,  does he get delight in the pain of his creatures (i.e. is god a sadist)?  None of these issues has anything to do with whether god exists... but for  those who claim an emotional relationship with god, they might consider  that they are relating to something totally unlike themselves... perhaps  something more akin to their other spiritual creature, the prince of  darkness. I prefer (like Smith) to examine the issue of god as a purely  speculative endeavor.  Whether god exists or not is worth thinking about,  but it is not worth getting very worked up about...	1999-06-12
US	53075242	R10YJN95SSERFC	0764503316	429661848	Html 4 for Dummies	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Castro's Book is much better!	A big disappointment.  Elizabeth Castro's book runs circles around this work. It is badly organized and badly written.  Of course one can learn from it, but one can learn Chinese from Cantonese restaurant menus too.  Big deal... Get Castro's book instead!	1999-05-09
US	53075242	R20FGVJMUFWOR4	1853673072	755119795	The War of Atonement	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Brilliant military classic back in print!	This tightly written work is gripping reading!!!  FIRST, it gives a comprehensive political background from the 1967 Six Day War through the coordinated Egyptian-Syrian attack commencing at 2 p.m., October 6, 1973. [I opened an Excel spreadsheet and created an 86-entry &quot;time line&quot; from 1967 through Oct 6, 1973; other readers may find it useful to do likewise. I wish the author had included this tool...).] SECOND: The 9 maps in this book are EXCELLENT.  Almost every geographical locaction mentioned in the text appears on the maps.  The theater maps identify major geographical and military unit locations without becoming cluttered; the maps clarify and complement the text. THIRD: The writing is terse, detailed, and riviting with lots of fascinating detail. (The first 24 hours were hair-raising! ...And the story of the Israeli breakthrough north of Great Bitter Lake, followed up with encirclement of the 3rd Egyptian Army,is white-knuckle reading!) It came as a sh! ock to me to discover that the Israelis were not totally taken by surprise by the attack. In the last two days before hostilities broke out, it was obvious a war was imminent -- but the Israelis projected a 6 p.m. start.  The onslaught began four hours earlier (a compromise between the Egyptians who wanted a p.m. offensive so the sun wouldn't be in their eyes, and the Syrians, who wanted an a.m. attack for the same reason!) FOURTH:  This war was in fact two wars, very dissimilar from each other: the Golan Heights war; and the Suez Canal war.  Each is fully covered, in exquisite detail, unit by unit, hour by hour. FIFTH: It would have been useful if the author had included tables of organization, and orders of battle for the three major armies involved, but the work is still highly readable without them. SIXTH: Chapter 18, Lessons and Implications, is the capstone of this work.  An example of the style (p. 274) : &quot;At the higher level the Egyptian strategy was excellent, co! mbining as it did strategic offense with tactically defensi! ve operations, for as soon as they were across the Canal they deployed in narrow bridgeheads and waited for the Israeli forces to attack.  The wide crossing of the Canal dissipated the force of the Israel Air Force and the very nature of the attack ... guaranteed them a number of footholds....  [T]here was no room for the Israeli forces to exercise their superiority in the war of maneuver.&quot;  SUMMARY:  Time spent reading this work is well spent.  It is a lovingly crafted work of military history. It is amazing that it was first published only two years after the Yom Kippur War took place! Though written by an Israeli, it gives credit to the high caliber of the Egyptian and Syrian efforts; one wonders what they could have acheived if they hadn't become married to Soviet military doctrines and organization.....ategic offense with tactically defensi! ve operations, for as soon as they were across the Canal they deployed in narrow bridgeheads and waited for the Israeli forces to attack.  The wide crossing of the Canal dissipated the force of the Israel Air Force and the very nature of the attack ... guaranteed them a number of footholds....  [T]here was no room for the Israeli forces to exercise their superiority in the war of maneuver.&quot;  SUMMARY:  Time spent reading this work is well spent.  It is a lovingly crafted work of military history. It is amazing that it was first published only two years after the Yom Kippur War took place! Though written by an Israeli, it gives credit to the high caliber of the Egyptian and Syrian efforts; one wonders what they could have acheived if they hadn't become married to Soviet military doctrines and organization.....	1998-08-01
US	53075242	RH2LHS4BAO0JW	1853672661	806898314	Battles of the Bible	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Top-notch, tightly written, with lots of maps &amp; graphics	This is a top notch book about military science and history.  It shows how the Israelites penetrated into the Middle Eastern landbridge, displaced the Caananites from the highlands, expanded their power into the vallies (where the chariot was king), and extended their power over satellite states (and periodically lost control over them).  --  A wealth of tactical maps and diagrams (38), drawings (45), and photographs (53) make all the difference!  A chronological table is another helpful aid.  What this book does NOT have are regional and theater level maps.  [I used Rogerson's Atlas of the Bible, a miserable Time-Life book saved only by excellent maps to see the larger picture.  Any good historical map with a 1 mile = 1 inch or similar scale would work, too!]. ---  Readers should be aware that 238 of the 271 pages of text (88%) are the work of Mordechai Gichon; 33 pages (12%) are attributed to Chaim Herzog.  ---  Extensive crossreferences to the English language Christian Bible (e.g. Judg. 7:4-7) allow one to read more extensively about certain epochs.  I used the New International Version, and had little difficulties following the politics, tactical maneuvering, and logistical issues of different campaigns.  --  This volume is also well written: clear; concise; without ideological or religious jargon; and neither pretenious nor 'academic'.  A good book.  For those who like military history, and enjoy a lot of detail, this is a great read!	1998-07-12
