US	53079384	R1A6P3GKRTDKFF	8763001233	837645640	The Scientific Reproduction of Gender Inequality: A Discourse Analysis of Research Texts on Women's Entrepreneurship	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Provocative &amp; insightful look at gender inequality	Helene Ahl has written a wonderfully provocative &amp; insightful book.  Her discourse analysis of 81 journal articles on \\"women\\" entrepreneurs uncovered four basic assumptions that perpetuate a very peculiar status quo: women are The Other and men are the \\"normal\\" entrepreneurs.  Authors assume that entrepreneurship is good because it contributes to economic growth, which  is very good; that men &amp; women are essentially different (even if study after study disconfirms this assumption); that a gendered division of public and private life is \\"natural'; and, that individual rather than collective action is what matters most in capitalist societies.  These assumptions are supported by research methods that fail to investigate how gender is actually \\"done,\\" on the ground, by people in business and by an objectivist epistemology that fails to appreciate the social construction of reality.  (No, Ahl is NOT posting subjectivist ontology - she knows the difference!)  She has strong words for the current US dominated writing, reviewing, and publishing system, toward which the rest of the world seems headed.  She also points to the larger institutional system in which \\"entrepreneurship\\" research is embedded, although space considerations prevent her from doing full justice to its complexity.<br />I squirmed uncomfortably as I recognized some of my own work as the implicit (and in two cases, explicit) target of her argument. I finished the book wishing I had somewhere to go to repent!<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in achieving a cross-national, comparative, and feminist view of current scholarship on entrepreneurship.	2004-05-23
US	53079384	R3QTMOU58KE70F	0803974310	493113822	Composing Qualitative Research: Crafting Theoretical Points from Qualitative Research	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Writing from the heart	This book applies to far more types of scholarly writing than \\"qualitative research.\\" The authors make valuable suggestions for how to frame your journal article so that it appeals to the community of scholars in your field, regardless of your methodology.  At the heart of their guidelines lies an ancient truth: attract an audience by setting up a problem, a complication, and then showing them how it can be resolved.  I recommend this book to any graduate student or assistant professor in the social sciences who is just beginning an academic career.  Following the authors' advice will save you months of wasted time and effort!	2004-04-12
US	53079384	R3109156CN94G	0761964282	629237010	Grounded Theory in Management Research (SAGE series in Management Research)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A masterful job of explaining grounded theory	Karen Locke manages, in a little over 100 pages, to simultaneously explain grounded theory, document its roots, show the conditions under which it can be used, and still maintain a critical stance toward it!  She includes an extensive discussion of Barry Turner's work on disaster; an account of Glaser &amp; Straus's procedure called 'coding,' unpacks the various varieties of grounded theory (there's not just one!), and shows great familiarity with the French influences on American social science in the past several decades.<br />Although she doesn't say it, her discussion implies that grounded theory is best learned from a mentor, when a novice is in an apprentice's role.  My impression from some purported 'grounded theory' papers I've read in the past few years is that some junior scholars invoke it as a way of avoiding the hard work of doing what Glaser &amp; Straus (&amp; their followers) showed is really required to achieve a scholarly product. Some young scholars I've spoken with see it as a short cut, rather than as a serious &amp; rigorous method in its own right. Locke does a great job of indicating how time consuming serious grounded theory work can be.<br />This is a great book for people just starting to think about doing grounded theory building.	2004-04-08
US	53079384	RXIFVOBNCXCP5	1579220541	764790913	The Art of Changing the Brain: Enriching the Practice of Teaching by Exploring the Biology of Learning	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	Discovering the fundamentals of a learning mind	I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  At first, I was skeptical that a biologist could deal sensitively with the psychological &amp; social issues involved in helping students learn. But my skepticism quickly turned to enthusiasm when I discovered how clearly Zull linked his biological explanations of how brains work with the psychology of learning. He also described how instructors could put his insights to use in designing their courses &amp; classroom activities.  This is a great book and one I plan to use in my teaching seminar for graduate students.  Well written and with lots of helpful examples.	2003-11-25
US	53079384	RGJ875RUYMUCP	0826513468	330581713	Creating Contexts for Learning and Self-Authorship: Constructive-Developmental Pedagogy (Vanderbilt Issues in Higher Education)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Pedagogy that makes a difference in students' lives	Constructive developmental pedagogy, as described by Marcia Baxter Magolda, refers to creating learning contexts in which students are allowed to generate their own ideas and find their own voices. Building on the work of Robert Kegan, Magolda argues that teachers should help students achieve self-authorship, creating individuals who are able to create strong positive relations with others while maintaining their own sense of selfhood. Self authorship is \\"simultaneously an ability to construct knowledge in a contextual world, an ability to construct an internal identity separate from external influences, and an ability to engage in relationships without losing one's internal identity.\\"  Referencing her earlier well-known longitudinal study of college youth, Magolda argues that students have the potential to pass through four ways of knowing, moving from absolute knowing, through transitional-, independent-, and possibly contextual-knowing.  (People who know the Perry scheme of intellectual development will recognize this model.) Three of the four modes are gender-related, with men more focused on impersonal knowing and women on connected knowing, but the overall scheme applies to all students.<br />How do teachers achieve the ambitious goal of helping students achieve self authorship? First, Magolda argues that teachers must create conditions within which students are validated as knowers, rather than as passive receptacles into which experts pour knowledge.  Second, pedagogical practices must situate learning in students' own experiences, creating new experiences or drawing on their previous experiences, rather than presenting knowledge as detached and free-floating. Third, teachers must collaborate with students in defining learning as mutually constructed meaning.  Magolda takes great pains to point out that this does not mean turning students loose in an anything goes environment. Instead, students must be initiated into the community of knowing within a teacher's discipline or field, with teachers modeling good practices for students and helping them experience the thrill of discovering knowledge for themselves.<br />Magolda documents the effectiveness of her model by presenting ethnographic and survey data from her own classes and those of three other instructors at Miami University of Ohio.  She does a wonderful job of conveying what it was like to be a student in these classes, and is realistic about the limits of what each instructor achieved. Most courses did well in reaching transitional, independent, and contextual knowers, but fell short with absolute knowers.<br />I highly recommend this book to instructors ready for the challenge of trying to make a real difference in the lives of their students.  The book does not shy away from the dilemmas of trying to make this approach work in the face of ingrained assumptions antithetical to its use.  Indeed, Magolda identifies and counters the typical false dilemmas thrown against the method by critics, and instead portrays the real dilemmas.  Her passionate presentation and honest evaluation of the evidence should convince even the more serious skeptic that constructive developmental pedagogy has a great deal to offer 21st century college instructors.'s discipline or field, with teachers modeling good practices for students and helping them experience the thrill of discovering knowledge for themselves.<br />Magolda documents the effectiveness of her model by presenting ethnographic and survey data from her own classes and those of three other instructors at Miami University of Ohio.  She does a wonderful job of conveying what it was like to be a student in these classes, and is realistic about the limits of what each instructor achieved. Most courses did well in reaching transitional, independent, and contextual knowers, but fell short with absolute knowers.<br />I highly recommend this book to instructors ready for the challenge of trying to make a real difference in the lives of their students.  The book does not shy away from the dilemmas of trying to make this approach work in the face of ingrained assumptions antithetical to its use.  Indeed, Magolda identifies and counters the typical false dilemmas thrown against the method by critics, and instead portrays the real dilemmas.  Her passionate presentation and honest evaluation of the evidence should convince even the more serious skeptic that constructive developmental pedagogy has a great deal to offer 21st century college instructors.	2003-08-11
US	53079384	R3R6CL0M5IE7LW	0807738646	869250384	How Scholars Trumped Teachers: Constancy and Change in University Curriculum, Teaching, and Research, 1890-1990	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Faculty autonomy &amp; administrative inertia rule	In this case study of 2 departments at Stanford University, Larry Cuban shows that, despite repeated &quot;reforms&quot; and the installation of new leaders, the university's basic reward structure has remained more or less the same for a century. Indeed, similar &quot;reform&quot; proposals have re-cycled through the university over the years, dressed up in new rhetoric but with the same result: power and influence flow to those faculty who meet the highest standards in their disciplines, rather than those most interested in pedagogy. Scholars want to teach graduate students and work on their research.  When required to teach undergraduates, they want to offer small seminars in their specialty area, rather than foundational courses in their discipline.  Cuban uses data from other highly selective American universities to show that the same pattern obtains elsewhere. We could read Cuban's book as a tragedy, from a student's point of view, but then, who listens to them?	2003-08-11
US	53079384	R1TK67GKEDN6ZV	1891859382	879468535	Successful Beginnings for College TeachinG (Publicaffairs Reports) (Teaching Techniques/Strategies Series, V. 2)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Not just for beginnings, but for the middle &amp; end, too!	I was amazed at how much good advice McGlynn packed into such a short book!  I read it in one sitting, and constantly found myself saying, &quot;yes, that's right,&quot; or &quot;ok, I'll try that.&quot; She not only describes techniques that work for creating a more active learning environment in the classroom, but also (implicitly) explains why they work.  To be sure, this is not an &quot;academic book&quot; in the sense of being top heavy with citations and references.<br />Instead, it is a useful book, written in a very personal, easy-going style.  I felt as if I were having a conversation with her, rather than being lectured to. And, of course, that's the kind of classroom she's helping you create, if you follow her advice.	2003-03-24
US	53079384	R1Y3ATVTPJZYQ1	0201339919	11142498	The Power of Mindful Learning	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Mindful learning leads to mindful teaching	I read this book from the perspective of a college teacher, looking for new ways to think about what goes on in the classroom.  My eyes were opened! Langer argues that learning need not be boring and students don't have to think of education as &quot;work.&quot; She suggests ways to re-frame activities in ways that engage students in what they are doing and give them a reason to care about the outcomes.<br />Langer attacks the myth that rote learning &amp; blind memorization are the foundation for higher-order skills. She makes a strong case that &quot;forgetting&quot; is often a good thing.  Teachers should be concerned about students understanding the contextual limitations of what they learn, rather than with &quot;covering the material.&quot;<br />Coupled with Bob Boice's several books on mindfulness in teaching, this book changed the way I think about college teaching.	2003-03-24
US	53079384	R3QIA7N5BZR6V2	0743203046	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Civic engagement IS declining	Regardless of whether you accept Putnam's rather inclusive defintion of social capital, I believe you cannot quarrel with his empirical results concerning the decline in civic engagement.  Using an amazing array of sources, he shows that many different forms of civic participation, as well as just plain sociable interaction, have declined drastically over the past 4 decades.<br />I am impressed by his determination to leave no stone unturned in looking for data.  He uses Roper polls, Gallup polls, the General Social Survey, trade association data, Census Bureau information, and a myriad of other sources. He entertains alternative interpretations of patterns and then shows how his is, usually, at least as plausible and often better.  In his thoroughness, he presents a model for other social scientists to follow when they are trying to convince skeptics about the existence of previously unnoticed events.<br />Most impressive, he clearly explains what a &quot;cohort effect&quot; is, and shows that almost all of the decline in civic engagement is due to younger, less-engaged generations replacing older, more-engaged ones.  That is, it is NOT a matter of people changing as they aged through the turbulent 60s and 70s, but rather a matter of our children and grandchildren failing to adopt our -- the older generation -- civic habits.<br />I wasn't particuarly happy with his decision to use state-level measures of social capital in the last third of his book, but by then I had already become convinced of Putnam's major point: times have changed, and the 1940s and 50s were special decades.  We won't see their level of civic engagement again, unless something changes radically in our society.<br />I highly recommend this book to those of you who love Malcolm Gladwell's work.  This is what Gladwell would do, if he had Putnam's training in data analysis!	2002-07-26
US	53079384	R14ZHO215SIOM	0743215672	195472395	Inventing the Electronic Century: The Epic Story of the Consumer Electronics and Computer Industries	Books	4	30	32	N	N	More company histories than analytic principles	In earlier books by Chandler that I liked very much, such as Strategy &amp; Structure and The Visible Hand, historical narrative took precedence over facts and figures. Epic stories were told, and individual biography was subordinated to broader historical developments.  In this book, I felt the balance tilted the other way: I found myself fighting to concentrate on the story, while wading through very specific details that I quickly forgot as I moved onto the next company history.<br />Chandler has certainly done his homework.  In the Preface, he notes his limited technical knowledge of the consumer electronics and computer industries, but one would never guess that from the adept way he handles technical terms and explains the significance of various innovations. With many tables in the text and more in the appendix, Chandler convincingly documents his story.<br />It is a simple one: firms that came to dominate their industries did so by being first movers that established integrated learning bases, based on technical, functional or managerial knowledge. They thus gained economies of scale and scope (another concept that Chandler has contributed to the business history literature), obtained a critical head start, and successfully beat back most entrepreneurial startups.  In consumer electronics, a handful of Japanese firms built on their initial advantages to not only dominate world markets but also to destroy domestic producers in the U.S.  In computers, however, IBM built a lead it never relinquished, even though it was repeatedly challenged by European and Japanese firms.<br />Chandler noted, with obvious relish, that top executives in many firms engaged in short-sighted strategies that eventually brought them down. For example, RCA created many innovations that it licensed to the Japanese firms that ultimately destroyed it. Indeed, perhaps the major benefit of including so many detailed company histories is that they remind us of just how wrong so many excutives have been!<br />If you know little about the history of these two industries, Chandler's book will give you an excellent overview.  If you are familiar with them, you can still appreciate Chandler's skill in conveying the international comparative context for their evolution in the 20th century. In his provocative conclusion, Chandler asks whether the Japanese firms, with their strong integrated learning bases and dominance of consumer electronics, will ultimately triumph in the struggle for control of the world's information technology industries.es have been!<br />If you know little about the history of these two industries, Chandler's book will give you an excellent overview.  If you are familiar with them, you can still appreciate Chandler's skill in conveying the international comparative context for their evolution in the 20th century. In his provocative conclusion, Chandler asks whether the Japanese firms, with their strong integrated learning bases and dominance of consumer electronics, will ultimately triumph in the struggle for control of the world's information technology industries.	2002-01-07
US	53079384	R3RNMDP8QMOPRC	0195120183	863940087	Writing With Power: Techniques for Mastering the Writing Process	Books	4	37	38	N	Y	An antidote to all those rules your English teacher taught!	Before reading Elbow's book, I was quite skeptical concerning &quot;freewriting&quot; -- raw writing, writing without concern for the rules of grammar, writing for the sheer sake of getting words on paper.  Elbow overcame my skepticism with powerful examples, reports from his own experience &amp; that of his pupils, and clever exposition.  Rather than ducking the complexities and contradictions of good writing, Elbow tackles them head-on. His strategy involves aggressively seeking counter-arguments to his suggestions, and he often admits that two opposing principles both contain elements of truth. He then gives thoughtful advice on how to cope with such complexity.  Many of his guidelines involve dialectical or cyclical practices, e.g. paying attention to breathing life into your prose, but then revising for structure, and then returning once again to make sure you haven't choked the life out of what you've written.<br />In combination with Robert Boice's book, First-Order Principles for College Teachers, Elbow's book would make a wonderful present for a beginning academic or other professional whose livelihood depends on good writing. Graduate students in all fields would also benefit.  And, of course, people who TEACH writing could find much of value in this book.  Elbow, however, seems to have a dim view of many of his colleagues' tactics!	2001-12-26
US	53079384	R1MNEC5F5J8THK	0192632442	404642635	Darwinizing Culture: The Status of Memetics as a Science	Books	5	88	90	N	N	Culture Clash in Cambridge: Meme's doubters unconvinced	Unlike most edited volumes based on conferences, which typically read like random collections of papers glued between two covers, Aunger's edited volume displays a remarkable coherence.  Against all odds, he enticed a highly diverse group of academics to Cambridge who then constructively debated the status of memetics as a science. Susan Blackmore, after Richard Dawkins probably the most well-known proponent of memetics, and David Hull, a sympathetic critic, open the book with strong arguments for taking memetics seriously.  Henry Plotkin and Rosaria Conte then offer critiques of what they perceive as the somewhat faulty psychological assumptions underlying the meme concept.  Plotkin argues against making \\"imitation\\" the centerpiece of mimetic mechanisms, and Conte argues for a much more sophisticated and complex social cognitive perspective on memetics.  She presents a complex model of humans as limited autonomous agents, focusing on their active role in the perpetuation of cultural knowledge.<br />Kevin Laland and John Odling-Smee are sympathetic to the general notion of memes, but ask for more consideration of the multiple processes involved in evolution.  Their own contribution is the concept of niche construction, based on the idea that species have effects on their environments that subsequently constrain future generations.  Reprising ideas from their 1985 book, Culture and the Evolutionary Process, Boyd and Richerson argue for population level thinking in evolutionary models of cultural change.  I should note that the renewed interest in evolutionary thinking stirred up by Blackmore and others has resulted in the University of Chicago Press's re-issuing their book!<br />The last three chapters of the book are much more negative toward the whole enterprise.  Dan Sperber uses creative examples and logical proofs to conclude that Dawkin's conception of memes is misguided.  He argues that recent thinking in memetics goes against recent work in developmental and evolutionary psychology.  Adam Kuper notes that there already are well-established techniques for the study of cultural diffusion, especially in anthropology.  He concludes that the \\"memetics industry\\" has yet to deliver on its claims.  Finally, another anthropologist, Maurice Bloch, argues that memeticists have merely rediscovered what anthropology has known for decades, and in fact, is making all the same mistakes.  He has harsh words for scientists who jump into an area without paying more attention to what has already been done by others working in that area.<br />Aunger provides excellent introductory and concluding chapters, which constitute valuable contributions in themselves.  Chapter 1 beautifully lays out the issues and provides a constructive guide to the issues over which the contributors struggled.  Chapter 11 concludes the book with an assessment of the contributors' arguments and a frank admission of his own skepticism.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the concept of memes, cultural and social evolution, and the cultural divide between the natural and the social sciences.  You will not only learn something about memes, but you will also see how serious academic debate can be pulled off in a civilized and constructive manner.  My hat is off to Robert Aunger!evolutionary psychology.  Adam Kuper notes that there already are well-established techniques for the study of cultural diffusion, especially in anthropology.  He concludes that the \\"memetics industry\\" has yet to deliver on its claims.  Finally, another anthropologist, Maurice Bloch, argues that memeticists have merely rediscovered what anthropology has known for decades, and in fact, is making all the same mistakes.  He has harsh words for scientists who jump into an area without paying more attention to what has already been done by others working in that area.<br />Aunger provides excellent introductory and concluding chapters, which constitute valuable contributions in themselves.  Chapter 1 beautifully lays out the issues and provides a constructive guide to the issues over which the contributors struggled.  Chapter 11 concludes the book with an assessment of the contributors' arguments and a frank admission of his own skepticism.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the concept of memes, cultural and social evolution, and the cultural divide between the natural and the social sciences.  You will not only learn something about memes, but you will also see how serious academic debate can be pulled off in a civilized and constructive manner.  My hat is off to Robert Aunger!	2001-12-24
US	53079384	R2TLH3WYWVC7YS	0262621525	256429863	Dynamics of Organizations: Computational Modeling and Organizational Theories	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An exciting future for organizational analysis!	Lomi and Larsen recruited an outstanding set of authors to explain and apply a new generation of agent-based computational models to the problem of organizational change. Using state-of-the-art simulation methods, with clear explanations and superior examples, the various chapters show how principles from genetic algorithms, neural networks, and cellular automata can be applied to the emergence, persistence, and disbanding of organizations (and other hierarchical macrostructures). I particularly liked their well-considered decision to emphasize multiple levels of analysis within the same models.  This is a sourcebook that advanced students of organization studies should have on their shelf.	2001-11-29
US	53079384	RP58SMYPH748B	0449005410	68389017	Horse Heaven (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Justa book?  No -- an epic!	I can't remember the last time I read a book that began with a two-page list of characters! But, at 561 pages of prose, in small type, some readers might feel the need to refer back to that list, from time to time.  I admit to being intimidated, at first, but as I got deeper into the multiple story lines, I just decided to relax and enjoy the delightful atmosphere Jane Smiley was creating.<br />Eileen is a dog that loves her mistress and deliberately makes life hellish for her master (urinating in his best shoes is only one of Eileen's little tricks).  But the best characters in the book, I think, are the horses.  From the viewpoint of Justa Bob, Froney's Sis, Limitless, Epic Steam, and the other Thoroughbreds, humans exist to keep them supplied with hay &amp; oats.  Many of the horses have genuine affection for their trainers and handlers, and some, like Mr. T., reward those humans they like best by passing on racing tips much more valuable than those found in the Daily Racing Form. By the end of the book, I was praying that Justa Bob would be rescued from the glue factory and Residual would recover and be put out to pasture.  You'll fall in love with these animals, believe me.<br />Smiley's central human characters will hold your interest, too.  For example, she made me genuinely care whether Al and Rozzy's marriage would recover from the strain of the separate lives they were leading. However, some of the peripheral ones could have been edited out with no loss to the book's coherence. Overall, this book gave me enormous pleasure.	2001-09-17
US	53079384	R9LX8BWWRYXAX	0754613038	717015921	The Dynamics of New Firm Formation (Bruton Center for Development Studies)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Regional economic growth depends on new firms	Using a unique data set assembled by David Hicks, Vinod Sutaria built a sophisticated multi-variate model of what he terms \\"new firm formation.\\"  The data cover 27 MSAs/PMSAs in the state of Texas for the years 1970 to 1991.  Sutaria's dependent variable is the ratio of new establishments entering a region's manufacturing business base to the total number of mfg establishments in the area.<br />After estimating a model with all independent variables, Sutaria dropped the insignificant ones and derived a more parsimonious model with just 5 variables that explain about 50 percent of the variance: changes in the unemployment rate, the average size of establishments in the region, the entry and exit rate of all firms in the area (previous year), and total bank deposits per capita.  He also built supplemental models, using variables available for a more restricted set of years.<br />Sutaria clearly shows that contextual factors are the key to understanding economic growth in the Texas regions examined.  His argument is very compatible with an evolutionary view of economic development, in which \\"churning\\" - the comings and goings of new firms - fosters economic dynamism.  This book represents a welcome challenge to the neoclassical economic view, which tends to focus on equilibrium, rather than change.	2001-09-06
US	53079384	R1123USXM59W00	0300083858	504854868	A Matter of Taste: How Names, Fashions, and Culture Change	Books	5	8	8	N	N	What's in a name?  Lieberson knows!	Lieberson has written a scholarly, witty, and extremely informative book about the factors influencing parents' choices of first names for their children.  Using data from 7 countries plus the states of Illinois and California, he shows that \\"fashion\\" affects children's names just as much as it does choices in clothing or music.  Names became objects of fashion several centuries ago in the West, when, among other influences, state regulations and religious customs loosened their hold over what names parents could choose.  With the changes concomitant upon nations entering the modern era, name choices subsequently became more matters of individual preference rather than custom and tradition.  However, parents made their choices within the context of changing tastes driven by forces \\"internal\\" to the naming process itself, rather than being \\"determined\\" by external technological or mass media forces.<br />The sounds of names themselves display explicable trends, such as the preference for names ending in \\"a\\" or \\"n.\\"  Groups of names with similar endings rise and fall together, in fairly orderly, long-term movements.<br />Lieberson does a brilliant job in presenting evidence, using simple graphs and tables, rather than elaborate quantitative statistical analysis.  His chapter on trends in name choices among ethnic and racial groups is particularly compelling, as he shows the joint affects of internal mechanisms (e.g. how names \\"sound\\") and external influences (e.g. a group's desire to assimilate quickly).<br />Want to know why your parents named you \\"Judy\\" rather than \\"Judith\\"?  This book has the answer!	2001-09-04
US	53079384	R2QFVJC8JHP7HI	0871547007	947783803	Networks and Markets	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Sparks fly when economists meet sociologists	Rauch and Casella conducted a provocative experiment at a conference in 1997: they invited sociologists and economists to discuss and critique each others' views of markets and networks. Of the 6 substantive chapters in the book, 3 were written by sociologists and &quot;discussed&quot; by economists, 2 were written by economists and &quot;discussed&quot; by sociologists, and the sixth involved economists playing both roles. (I suspect that's because of the fairly technical nature of the analysis in the sixth.)<br />The result makes for fascinating reading. Rauch and Hamilton, in their introductory chapter, do a nice job of capturing the dimensions along which the two groups agreed and (mostly) disagreed. They argue that both groups could benefit by paying more attention to the others' work, but then they also point out that the methods of inquiry used by the two groups differ in many important respects. Rauch and Hamilton conclude that the current division of labor between sociology and economics is likely to persist.<br />For me, several of the comments made by discussants from one group on a chapter by the other group revealed how wide the gulf is between the disciplines. In commenting on John Padgett's chapter on Florentine bankers, for example, Gregory Besharov and Avner Grieif followed a scorched earth policy in which they emphasized the barriers to interdisciplinary exchange. In another exchange, Joel Sobel was a little more gentle on Ron Burt, but still offered a fundamentally different theoretical model in place of Burt's analysis of trust, information, and gossip in social networks.<br />This book would be very appropriate for a course on economic sociology, or a seminar on social networks. It would show students what they're up against! However, reading between the lines of the economists' comments in the book, I find it hard to imagine it being used in an economics course.	2001-08-31
US	53079384	R2LQZ9BJKR3U1U	0415130484	800971193	Entrepreneurship and the Market Process: An Enquiry into the Growth of Knowledge (Routledge Foundations of the Market Economy)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Learning theory applied to entrepreneurship	In contrast to theories of entrepreneurs which portray them as heroic figures, omniscient clairvoyants, or lucky fools, Harper argues that, like all humans, entrepreneurs can learn from their experience. They make reasonable conjectures, observe what happens, and then revise the theories and assumptions that led to the conjecture. Some are very good at this, but many -- probably most -- are not. Consequently, any theory of entrepreneurship must address the pervasive phenomenon of entrepreneurial failure and losses. The book is based on Harper's dissertation. Unlike most such books which are prematurely published, before their authors' ideas had time to mature, this book reflects the enormous amount of work Harper put into reviewing the relevant literature in economics (his field), psychology, philosophy, and other fields. Harper's intellectual mentor is Karl Popper, and he does an excellent job in summarizing Popper's ideas and applying them to the entrepreneurial problem: learning in the face of vast uncertainty. This is NOT a book for practicing enterpreneurs, but rather for people interested in theories of entrepreneurship. Harper's perspective represents a welcome challenge to the &quot;instrumentalist&quot; and &quot;entrepreneurial alertness&quot; views that now enjoy wide currency. It is a major contribution to the emerging evolutionary view of entreprenership.	2001-08-30
US	53079384	R1QAAAYW7E9DZG	0252024842	288802957	Collaboration, Reputation, and Ethics in American Academic Life: Hans H. Gerth and C. Wright Mills	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An illuminating study of intellectual ethics	As Oakes and Vidich state in their introduction, this book is an anaylsis of the ethics of academic career management. It is NOT a study of how scholars' career choices are affected by the historical conjuncture in which they find themselves, nor is it meant as an assessment of either Gerth's or Mills' contributions to sociological scholarship. Instead, we get an analysis &quot;built close to the ground it covers.&quot; In nearly exhaustive detail, the authors paint a devastating picture of one man -- Gerth -- whose undisciplined brilliance left him nearly totally dependent for his academic achievements on another man -- Mills -- who proved to be totally and ruthlessly pragmatic in his own career choices. Although Oakes and Vidich claim not to be taking sides, Gerth comes across as a tragic, bungling, and ultimately self-destructive emigre who was no match for Mills' amibitions to become a &quot;big shot.&quot; Mills himself used that telling phrase to describe the people he admired and whose tactics he copied.<br />Who should read this book?: Graduate students who've not yet made up their mind about going into an academic career, as well as junior faculty whose sensibilities have been jarred by their dawning recognition that &quot;success&quot; is not going to be solely a function of their &quot;talent.&quot; Oakes and Vidich's own assessment of what a reader can learn from the book is summed up in their last sentence: &quot;The path to a successful scientific career is traced by the fine line between overweening ambition that inspires doubts about honesty and a diffidence or restraint that disqualifies its possessor from participation in the contest for priority.&quot; They make their case very well in this engrossing portrait of the relationship between Hans Gerth and C. Wright Mills.	2001-08-29
US	53079384	R116X1X95JGC0N	0761986871	580979795	Sociology Through Active Learning: Student Exercises	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Wonderful Resource for Active Learning Oriented Instructors	In this book and its essential companion, The Instructor's Manual, McKinney, Beck, and Heyl have provided an amazing resource for instructors who use an active learning perspective (versus the old, &quot;sage on the stage&quot; one-way talk method).  The student handbook presents instructions and worksheets (when needed) for 50 exercises in 10 topic areas and 2 more general classroom process areas: theory &amp; methods, culture, socialization and interaction, groups and social influence, stratification, organizations and bureaucracy, race &amp; gender &amp; sexual orientation, deviance &amp; crime, collective behavior, social institutions, multi-topic assignments, and course structure &amp; process.<br />Each set of short instructions follows the same format: rationale, instructions on actually doing the exercise, and how it will be graded.  Some exercises require worksheets, which are included.  The exercises were contributed by faculty who actually developed and tested them, and so most of the bugs have already been worked out.  Instructors who use these exercises can modify them to suit their own classes, but they are so well-designed that I suspect most will just use them &quot;as is.&quot;<br />The accompanying instructor's manual is an absolute necessity. The table of contents gives a short description of each exercise, as well as a chart indicating whether the exercise is for individuals or groups, and how much time is needed for the exercise.  Each contributor has provided several pages of background for each exercise, following the same format: history and context, purpose, instructions for facilitating the exercise, other suggestions, and hints about time use.<br />An entire introductory sociology course could be designed around this book, or entire sections of it could be used for specific courses, e.g. on stratification or social movements.  With this book and some rich supplementary readings, your students would probably not need a textbook.<br />The authors have provided a wonderful resource for those of us teaching from an active-learning perspective.  I highly recommend the book AND the instructor's manual.thors have provided a wonderful resource for those of us teaching from an active-learning perspective.  I highly recommend the book AND the instructor's manual.	2001-05-18
US	53079384	R337KVR80V394V	1587990636	575169591	Why I Hate Flying: Tales for the Tormented Traveler	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Will this be the beginning of a new career for Henry?  Naw.	Henry's book fills a much-needed gap in the literature.<br />Actually, in spite of the publisher's request that I write an &quot;undorsement&quot; of this book, I read it cover to cover.  Now, if they'd only sent me the text, too, I could have read the rest. But in any case, I laughed!  I cried!  And then Henry's goons put me down...<br />Do me a favor.  If you see me reading this book in public, don't tell my students.	2001-04-17
US	53079384	R3C62K7BUPSRD9	0415241804	220676147	Social Capital Versus Social Theory (Routledge Studies in Contemporary Political Economy)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Ben Fine skins the social capital cat!	Midway through this difficult but entertaining book, Fine notes that he once wrote a paper on &quot;social capital&quot; for the World Bank in which he used the metaphor of &quot;skinning a cat.&quot; He was referring to the many different ways in which people have used the term and the resulting theoretical and practical confusion.  Fine offers his own alternative in Part IV, a 10-page chapter that concludes the book.  In Part III, he also offers 55 pages on how &quot;social capital&quot; has figured in the policies and plans of the World Bank.<br />For me, the book's value inheres in the first 2 parts of the book, in which Fine gives a social history of the term's use (and abuse) since Pierre Bourdieu's pioneering contribution. As an economist, Fine is particularly critical of how the concept has been used in economics.  Gary Becker, in his imperialstic push to encompass all of social life within a methodological individualist economic framework, is roundly criticized.  James Coleman, a sociologist who ran a social capital seminar at the University of Chicago with Becker, is also singled out for his uncritical acceptance of economic assumptions in building a concept of &quot;social capital&quot; on social exchange theory.<br />Fine covers a vast amount of literature in economics, political science, sociology, and other disciplines.  He is a harsh critic, but he is explicit about the criteria used for his evaluations and gives credit to many others as sources of his criticisms.<br />Fine's prose is a bit thick at times, and a diligent copy editor could probably have shortened the book by a third.  However, Fine's obvious passion for his subject and the thoroughly annotated review of the literature make this a book that scholars in the social capital field will have to read.  But of course, Fine would say, &quot;the way things are going in this ever-expanding field, that may well include just about everyone!&quot;	2001-03-26
US	53079384	R1U7WVXQR0N7ZQ	0195131444	610673953	The Origin and Evolution of New Businesses	Books	3	54	60	N	N	Rich examples, interesting ideas, but inappropriate data	Amar Bhide has written a richly illustrated book about new and growing firms, drawing eclectically on many social science disciplines.  Although he makes frequent references to economics, he often invokes explanatory factors from cognitive psychology and organization theory.  His resulting model thus has a strong ring of behavioral plausibility.  Unfortunately, he draws on a database that is simply inappropriate for answering his central question: why do a small fraction of startups turn into promising firms, whereas the great majority do not?<br />Bhide committed a fundamental methodological error: he selected only successful firms and then tried to infer what differentiated them from the (non-selected) unsuccessful ones.  He surveyed 100 founders of companies that appeared on the Inc. 500 list in 1989 and drew upon on several hundred case studies by his students at Harvard, plus cases of successful firms drawn from business periodicals and his own research.  Although he shows some awareness of the methodological problem thus created, he nonetheless injudiciously draws strong inferences from empirical regularities among the successful firms.<br />Why is such selection bias problematic?  Consider a hypothetical study, showing that 20 percent of the successful firms in the financial services industry were currently run by Harvard MBAs, compared to only 10 percent by Stanford MBAs.  Would we be entitled to conclude Harvard MBAs were twice as successful as those from Stanford?  What if we learned that Harvard MBAs started 80 percent of the firms in the financial services industry, compared to only 1 percent for Stanford?  And, that most of the firms started by Harvard MBAs had failed?  Now we see that Stanford MBAs are highly over-represented among the successful firms, compared to the initial population of startups, and that Harvard MBAs are substantially under-represented.  Without information on the initial cohorts of firms starting out in an industry, we are in great danger of engaging in superstitious learning of the kind that Bhide actually reviews in his book (research conducted by Camerer, Kahneman, Tversky, and others).<br />By relying on information from firms that made it onto the Inc. 500 list or into the cases written up by his students, as well as on case histories of FedEx, Walmart, Microsoft, and other successful firms, Bhide cannot tell us why or how those firms got there.  Only a research design that allowed him to follow startups and growing firms over time would give him the dynamic data he needs to answer the questions posed by his extremely interesting model.reat danger of engaging in superstitious learning of the kind that Bhide actually reviews in his book (research conducted by Camerer, Kahneman, Tversky, and others).<br />By relying on information from firms that made it onto the Inc. 500 list or into the cases written up by his students, as well as on case histories of FedEx, Walmart, Microsoft, and other successful firms, Bhide cannot tell us why or how those firms got there.  Only a research design that allowed him to follow startups and growing firms over time would give him the dynamic data he needs to answer the questions posed by his extremely interesting model.	2001-01-14
US	53079384	R3JQZ350XLDJ1Y	1891487485	903983550	The Sociology of Gender: A Brief Introduction	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Powerful, passionate, and compelling	In this book aimed mainly at undergraduates, Laura Kramer writes with compassion &amp; understanding about the sociology of gender.  Although she favors a multiracial feminist perspective, she sympathetically reviews other leading perspectives on gender, including radical, socialist, postmodernist, and liberal feminism. For each issue she addresses, she shows how other perspectives shed light on a different piece of the puzzle.<br />A great strength of the book is Kramer's historical perspective on gender issues.  She notes that we are now in the &quot;third wave&quot; of feminist activism, and she shows how definitions of &quot;problems&quot; and &quot;solutions&quot; have changed over the past 100 years.  &quot;Femininity&quot; and &quot;masculinity&quot; are not fixed categories but rather have evolved as American culture and social structure have changed.  Underlying much of her analysis is the assumption that economic forces, especially changing employment opportunities, account for a great deal of the change in gender ideology and politics.<br />Students will find the 5 page glossary of key terms and the 16 page references section invaluable for further research.  Each chapter ends with 3 discussion questions.  Non-students will learn much from Kramer's lucid explanations and detailed examples.  She cares deeply about the issues in this book, and it shows.	2000-12-25
US	53079384	R2YKSTG8YFSK1W	0750699256	272235583	Synchronicity: The Entrepreneur's Edge	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Some coincidences defy explanation	Jessika Satori has assembled an impressive set of amazing coincidences: e.g. people meeting unexpectedly who discover that each has something the other desperately needs, and that together they can achieve awesome results.  Indeed, some of the coincidences are stunning.  They seem so unlikely, how could one doubt that they were somehow &quot;destined&quot; to occur?<br />Nonetheless, whenever we see someone trying to explain rare events, we should remain skeptical until other explanations have been ruled out.  Satori has not done so.  She is so committed to her mystical explanation that she fails to consider a far simpler explanation: in a complex world where millions of people interact every minute of the day, occasional startling coincidences are bound to occur.  Sure, they are mind-boggling, but they are also to be expected.  Customers win at the gambling tables in Las Vegas every day, but we attribute their wins to luck, not predestination.<br />As an alternative to Satori's book, or perhaps to give yourself a different take on coincidence, I highly recommend Michael Shermer, Why People Believe Wierd Things.	2000-12-25
US	53079384	R2Z3SI7RC9FVRF	1891859056	255140634	Teaching and Performing: Ideas for Energizing Your Classes	Books	3	1	1	N	N	All the world's a stage,including the classroom	The authors do an excellent job of connecting &quot;performing&quot; to the teaching philosophy of active learning.  If you are already sold on active learning, you will find some of their material a bit repetitive.  However, the authors' target seems to be people who use a one-way talk or &quot;sage on the stage&quot; style of teaching.  For them, this book could be eye-opening, with its call for abandoning the &quot;content provider role&quot; and moving toward more interaction-oriented teaching.<br />Every chapter contains suggestions for exercises, many requiring physical movement and the cooperation of others.  Many chapters also offer checklists for self-assessment, although I question whether untutored instructors will have the self-awareness to make good use of them.<br />Two things could be improved in the next edition of the book. First, the authors should eliminate the many very positive references &amp; short vignettes concerning their colleagues' teaching.  I'm sure most of the people named are exemplary teachers, but the snippets of material are much too short to serve a pedagogical function.  Second, for a book by people apparently heavily involved in dramatic arts, there are surprisingly few in-depth lessons on how to take specific learning objectives &amp; apply tips from the stage to achieve them.  Many short references are made to popular plays and films, but they don't really add value to the book.<br />I would certainly recommend that instructors interested in active learning read this book.  I'm not sure I would recommend its purchase.  I should note, however, that with my purchase I received a bonus: pages 117-148 appeared twice in the book!	2000-11-26
US	53079384	RTSOW4BFF5243	087584863X	512453733	Information Rules: A Strategic Guide to the Network Economy	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A very incomplete view of the network economy	Shapiro &amp; Varian do a great job of explaining how the fundamental principles of economics are still relevant, even in the new network economy. They apply standard principles from the micro-economics theory of appropriate firm conduct to the special contingencies of information economy firms. They make quite modest claims for their efforts, acknowledging that &quot;it depends&quot; must be the answer to most questions about what firms should do, in the face of the new contingencies.<br />My disappointment with the book stems from their choice of cases. Almost all of their extended examples involve the very largest firms operating in the American economy: e.g. Microsoft, IBM, Sony, AT&amp;T, and Sun Microsystems. They have chosen mostly firms from the Fortune 1000, firms that have strategic planning departments, deep pockets, and access to highly paid consultants.<br />But, the very essence of the new information economy is entrepreneurship -- the creation of 1000s of startups that are poorly capitalized and begin with not much more than a founding teams' vision of what they might become, if they are lucky. The pioneers in the new economy were firms like Osborne and Visi-calc, NOT IBM and AT&amp;T. When an accurate economic history of the past several decades is written, it will emphasize the 1000s of experiments represented by struggling startups to make their mark, not the maneuvers of the largest &amp; most powerful firms that arrived late at the party.<br />&quot;Assume you are a large firm&quot; seems to be the operating assumption of Shapiro and Varian, rather than a realistic appraisal of the true size and power of the thousands of firms constituting the real infrastructure of the new economy. Where are all the failures? The bankrupt firms? The strategic mis-steps that cut down many firms in their infancy? E.g where's Psuedo Networks? Case studies of information goods' firms that didn't make it would have lent an aura of reality to sn otherwise blandly optimistic book.mistic book.	2000-11-25
US	53079384	R37YL6MLKBHTKE	0787941182	171001035	Forms of Ethical and Intellectual Development in the College Years: A Scheme	Books	4	59	59	N	N	Putting the Perry Scheme in historical perspective	If you already know the secondary literature on the Perry scheme, you know his model of undergraduate intellectual and moral development.  Students move through Positions -- NOT &quot;stages&quot; -- as they mature, from a rigid dualistic view of knowledge (&quot;right&quot; vs. &quot;wrong&quot;) through various forms of multiplicity -- there is no certainty &amp; so all opinions have the same truth status -- until they reach relativism, in which Position they recognize that all knowledge is contextual. Moving beyond relativism, some become commited relativists, learning to live with competing &amp; contradictory commitments.  This is NOT a simple deterministic developmental scheme, as some students retreat from relativism, others deny or reject the implications of their positions, and the time spent in any one position is indeterminate.<br />What current users of the Perry scheme may not realize is how meticulous he was in constructing it.  This book charts the origins of the project from his counseling of students at Harvard &amp; Radcliffe in the early 1950s, through his creation of the Checklist of Educational Values in the mid-50s, to the semi-structured personal interviews with 109 students from the classes of '62 and '63.  Although he never lost sight of his ultimate goal -- developing a tool to help people who counseled college students on their journey toward greater self-understanding -- he invested heavily in methodological innovations, creating valid and reliable measures toward that end.  Working with a team of graduate assistants, he created interview &amp; coding protocols that are a model of careful scholarly work.<br />Two other points about the book's value today:  First, it contains extensive quotations from the actual recorded transcripts of the interviews, thus allowing us to see for ourselves the correspondence between the model's Position descriptions and the students' own words.  Second, Perry's scheme was built on a very strong normative position.  He firmly believed that intellectual and moral growth are desirable outcomes of a student's college years.  He wrote of the courage students needed to assume the risks of forward movement toward higher Positions in his scheme.<br />In the last paragraphs, Perry called for a new model of education that would support students in their risk taking, and his call is just as relevant today as it was 30 years ago.sition.  He firmly believed that intellectual and moral growth are desirable outcomes of a student's college years.  He wrote of the courage students needed to assume the risks of forward movement toward higher Positions in his scheme.<br />In the last paragraphs, Perry called for a new model of education that would support students in their risk taking, and his call is just as relevant today as it was 30 years ago.	2000-11-20
US	53079384	R3KYDS4UIEGYI4	0521627516	866057670	Wealth in America: Trends in Wealth Inequality	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Forget income, look at wealth inequality!	In this scholarly and provocative book, Lisa Keister argues that social scientists have been so caught up in studying occupational mobility and income attainment that they have missed the central feature of the social landscape in America: wealth is extremely unequally distributed and shows little sign of being redistributed equally.  In 1995, the top 1% of wealth owners owned about two-fifths of net worth and nearly half of all financial wealth. By contrast, the bottom 60% owned less than 5% of net worth and had basically NO financial wealth.<br />Keister painstakingly assembled a massive data set from various surveys and government reports, covering the period 1962-1995. In addition to analyzing the actual data, she also built simulation models that allowed her to model the processes underlying changes over time. The simulation models also allowed her to perform &quot;what if&quot; scenarios.  For example, she showed that the very high threshhold for estate taxes is probably the single biggest contributor to the perpetuation of wealth inequality across generations. She was also able to show that, contrary to what many commentators have claimed, the baby boomer generation adopted various strategies that have enabled them to do better, economically, than their parents.<br />I highly recommend this book to scholars interested in trends in wealth inequality, and to public policy makers who might wish to do something about it.  Keister relegated much of the technical details to an Appendix, but the book will still be heavy going for the statistically challenged. Nonetheless, upper level college and graduate students taking courses in social inequality, political economy, public policy, social and economic justice, and related fields would benefit enormously from reading this book.	2000-10-07
US	53079384	R29WBLS3EV7AE6	0891061444	218573761	Careerpreneurs: Lessons from Leading Women Entrepreneurs on Building a Career Without Boundaries	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Taking charge of your entrepreneurial career	In lively and engaging prose, Dorothy Perrin Moore examines the career strategies of successful women business owners and managers.  Using recent research and her own case studies, Moore emphasizes building a career by networking with others and employing a team-oriented management style.  The book is laden with good advice and links to additional resources.  I highly recommend it to people interested in taking charge of their own careers	2000-09-29
US	53079384	R1G8PWXTOXL3LC	0684863456	741201669	Competing On Internet Time: Lessons From Netscape And Its Battle With Microsoft	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Now I understand what happened to Netscape!	I found their description of the evolving routines at Netscape (and  Microsoft) amazingly complete for researchers who had to do the job  &quot;after the fact.&quot;  Indeed, it reads like an ethnography, which I  think is the highest compliment I can pay a book that depended on  interviews with key participants, rather than actually sitting in on  meetings.  They really captured the tension, ambiguity, and uncertainty  involved in a high growth start up.<br />The book fits very well with an  evolutionary view of how routines &amp; bundles of routines develop within  organizations.  I recommend it to people interested in evolutionary theory.<br />The authors supply a cold dose of reality for anyone who thinks that  managing a knowledge intensive high growth start is easy!	2000-08-23
US	53079384	R1NYWM24TBC8H	0684867176	52388173	Harnessing Complexity: Organizational Implications of a Scientific Frontier	Books	4	17	23	N	N	Clear thinking on complexity	In clear, non-technical prose, the authors spell out the practical implications of complexity theory for a variety of domains.  They use lots of examples to illustrate their points, and deliberately keep the  discussion at a level accessible to non-experts.  If you were baffled by  Stuart Kauffman's writings, you'll be surprised to learn that complexity  theory has practical applications!	2000-04-30
US	53079384	R1UWBNQCX2RQJ8	0205281591	333030362	Advice for New Faculty Members	Books	5	78	82	N	Y	Wise words from a superb teacher &amp; scholar	In an earlier book, First-order Principles for College Teachers, Bob Boice advised us to moderate classroom incivilities, learn to begin before feeling ready, appreciate the value of waiting, and work in short reflexive  intervals. In this latest book, Boice expands his focus to the other  aspects of a productive and emotionally satisfying scholarly career.  He  begins with teaching and then goes on to write about non-teaching  activities.  In masterful strokes, he lays out the case for mindful work as  the key to teaching, writing, and service.<br />Boice urges us to focus on  the process of working, rather than its products.  We need to work with  constancy and moderation, rather than in hypermanic bursts that ultimately  burn us out.<br />Moderation is the key, and Boice makes the case with  persuasive arguements and excellent examples.  I felt my own tension  draining away even as I read the book!  I have put his principles into  practice in my own work, and I will buy copies for all my graduate  students, so they can do the same.<br />This is a wonderful, wise, and witty  book.	2000-02-10
US	53079384	RFZDSKFAXCKE3	0792384202	514690121	Organizational Learning: Creating, Retaining & Transferring Knowledge	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A tremendous achievement	Linda Argote not only summarizes what is know about organizational learning but also integrates her own creative research into the mix.  Her research on pizza franchises is legendary, and in this book she shows why.  Using innovative methods in shipyards, truck factories, airplane factors,  pizza shops, and elsewhere, Argote derives propositions and puts them to  the test.<br />I particularly liked her discussion of organizational memory  and forgetting.  What a great notion -- organizations CAN forget things! --  and Argote shows just how quickly that can happen.<br />This book belongs on  the shelf of every scholar and manager interested in how organizations  learn (and forget).	1999-09-28
US	53079384	R1XB6PTOCGM679	1882982126	256964921	First-Order Principles for College Teachers: Ten Basic Ways to Improve the Teaching Process	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Every new college instructor should read this book	This book is required reading in my seminar on college teaching.  Boice lays out, clearly &amp; succintly, the argument that good teachers are made, not born.  His 10 tips are gems. Practiced patiently, as he suggests,  the tips will relieve the anxiety many beginning instructors feel as they  (over)prepare for their first semester. His ideas on reducing classroom  incivilities are easy to implement, and his recommendation to  &quot;pause&quot; --while counter-intuitive -- really works!  Finally, he  shows that practices promoting excellent teaching also promote excellent  research, a message that junior faculty will find reassuring!	1999-09-22
US	53079384	R1Q4OTHNM5T8JN	0471072532	291742590	Strategic Human Resources: Frameworks for General Managers	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best book on strategic human resources I have ever read!	Baron &amp; Kreps write with wit &amp; grace, pulling together a vast amount of literature to make their point that human resource management is critical to a firm's success. In every chapter, they get to the point  quickly, writing for students in a way that faculty will appreciate.  They  retain the essence of the academic research on which their principles are  based, while focusing on what it all means for managers.  I highly  recommend this book.	1999-09-20
