US	53075760	R28PYDJXZYFVDD	0880016264	224335857	Darkest Desire: The Wolf's Own Tale	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fur-raising tale	This is another book review by the boonie dogs, Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Darkest Desire&quot;, allegedly by Anthony Schmitz, presents a wolf's-eye-and-snout view of the Brothers Grimm.  We suspect that this book  was ghostwritten by a fellow canine.  Much of the book is too insightful  and too clever to have been written by a typical human author.<br />The  passages about the tastiness of human puppies are somewhat offensive.  A  canine is more likely to protect a human child from human predators than to  eat the child himself.  However, &quot;Schmitz&quot; does make it clear  that the child-eating wolf is no more typical of canines than Hannibal  Lecter is of humans.  In a nice twist on an idea used decades ago by  Clifford Simak in &quot;City&quot;, Schmitz makes use of the canine ability  to perceive and interact with phenomena beyond human perception.	1999-04-05
US	53075760	R3115DGV340056	0811822370	669456024	Dogs in the Sun	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Good concept, wrong island	This is another book review by the boonie dogs, Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Dogs in the Sun&quot; by Hans Silvester is a book of photos of the stray dogs on Greek islands.  We love the concept, although a Pacific  island, like our own, would have provided a more colorful setting.  The  photos here portray real canine life, as opposed to the cute, but posed or  staged, photos usually found in dog picture books.  Unlike most books of  this type, &quot;Dogs in the Sun&quot; might not be an appropriate gift for  human puppies, as it contains some pictures of dog sex and violence.	1999-03-14
US	53075760	R3T6HS50DM93T6	0821224972	177779569	If Only You Knew How Much I Smell You: True Portraits of Dogs	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Inspirational	This is another book review from the boonie dogs, Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;If Only You Knew How Much I Smell You&quot;, by Valerie Shaff and, allegedly, Roy Blount, Jr., is an inspiring collection of dog photographs.   Both the pictures and the captions are wonderful.  Our only complaint is  that Blount, a noncanine animal of primate derivation, takes credit for  many captions that were obviously written by the dogs themselves.	1998-11-21
US	53075760	RSMMIP6MN15DH	0151002517	787923440	Blindness	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Five stars for the dog of tears.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Blindness&quot; by Jose Saramago is a bit deeper than most of the books we review.  However, not only is &quot;Blindness&quot; a powerful  book for noncanine animals of primate derivation, but there are some  aspects of the book that appeal to our species.<br />&quot;Blindness&quot; is  about a plague that turns humans blind, causing human society to collapse.  This book shows that a species which relies primarily upon one sense,  sight, is inferior to a species that can also get by with highly developed  senses of smell and hearing.  Indeed, in some places in  &quot;Blindness&quot;, it seemed that packs of dogs were about to inherit  the earth.<br />Canine readers will also be pleased that Saramago introduces a  scene-stealing canine character, &quot;the dog of tears&quot;, late in the  book.  This dog displays more moral sense than many of the human  characters, and provides some respite from the novel's compelling, but  generally grim, tone.	1998-11-03
US	53075760	R66AJL1D1GV0S	0151003378	71188458	Lost and Found: Dogs, Cats, and Everyday Heroes at a Country Animal Shelter	Books	5	0	8	N	N	A painful reading experience.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Lost and Found&quot; by Elizabeth Hess is a hard book for a boonie dog to read.  This book is about a &quot;humane shelter&quot; (prison) where animals are either &quot;put to sleep&quot; (killed) or &quot;fixed&quot; (broken).  We guess we could say it is a book about places where dogs like us are euphemized and euthanized.  This was an especially difficult book for us to deal with because Kansas spent part of her infancy as a prisoner at such a facility.<br />&quot;Lost and Found&quot; is well-written.  It convinced us that the non-canine animals of primate derivation who work in these shelters are part of the solution, not part of the problem.  Our one complaint about the book is that it devotes too much space to evil cat creatures.  In one paragraph, Ms. Hess even compares cats favorably to dogs.  This passage was obviously intended as satire, but an imperceptive human reader could be misled.  &quot;Lost and Found&quot;, like the shelters it describes, could be improved by purging the cats to make room for more dogs.	1998-06-26
US	53075760	R3VCG5KB8F9O6P	1572230428	830579894	Just Mutts: A Tribute to the Rogues of Dogdom	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An excellent if overdue tribute	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Just Mutts:  A Tribute to the Rogues of Dogdom&quot; by Steve Smith and Gene Hill remedies a serious gap in the genre of coffee table dog books.  As Mark Derr noted in &quot;Dog's Best Friend&quot;, we mutts and boonie dogs are far superior to cognitively impaired, hip-displaced show dogs.  At last some noncanine animals of primate derivation have produced a coffee table book featuring us rather than some AKC-recognized breed.<br />There are many highlights in &quot;Just Mutts&quot;.  We liked the picture on the left side of page 48, which looks like Kansas, and the narrative description of a trip to the vet, which reminded us of Wolfie's last trip to the chamber or horrors and needles.  Our only complaint is that, despite the subtitle, &quot;Just Mutts&quot; seems to feature trainable pets, rather than true rogues and boonie dogs.	1998-05-21
US	53075760	R8V5FSWGF566R	0688152708	166805371	The Ultimate Rush	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A good book but a better movie?	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  The first chapter of &quot;Ultimate Rush&quot; by Joe Quirk lives up to the title.  Quirk describes a near-suicidal rollerblade descent down San Francisco hills so vividly that it gives human readers a sense of the rush we experience when we chase cars.<br />Shortly afterwards Quirk gave us a scare when he introduced the book's canine character, a Rottweiler named Wily, in decidedly miscaninthropic terms.  Nonetheless, the description contained enough insight that we suspected, correctly, that Quirk's apparent miscanthropy was a mere facade.  The books builds towards a shoot-out involving good cops vs. bad cops vs. the Mafia vs. a Tong vs. the feds vs. an unarmed motley assortment of skateboarders, punk rockers, computer hackers and Wily.  (We may have missed or added someone in the confusion.)  Needless to say, the gang with canine supervision prevails.<br />While &quot;Ultimate Rush&quot; is a fun read, sometimes the characters seem a bit shallow, and the action is a little hard to follow in print.  We recommend reading this book, but especially hope it is made into a movie, where neither of our concerns would be a problem.	1998-05-13
US	53075760	R3GJ0VDTHZN47M	0380728133	61850312	Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Emperor Norton's dogs save the day and the book!	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Bloodsucking Fiends&quot; is another funny, well-plotted ofbeat book by Christopher Moore, full of entertaining characters.  The basic story is living boy meets undead girl, and subjects her to very weird bondage.<br />We admit to being a little tired of vampire books.  Perhaps human writers should stop overdoing the vampire bit, and produce a few good books about what they call &quot;werewolves&quot;.  (We call them &quot;werehumans&quot;.)  &quot;Bloodsucking Fiends&quot; is saved from vampire triteness by Moore's humor and, from our perspective, the inclusion of dogs.  The Van Helsing role in &quot;Bloodsucking Fiends&quot; is played by an Emperor Norton character, who leads an army consisting of a Boston terrier and a golden retriever.<br />Finally, we hope we have not offended Christopher Moore's fans by giving this book a 9 rather than 10.  We tend to save our tens for recognized classics of world literature, like &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot; and &quot;Island of the Sequined Love Nun&quot;.	1998-05-10
US	53075760	R3OUPQ3JUV8T36	0812929934	977678282	Out of Left Field: Over 1,134 Newly Discovered Amazing Baseball Records, Connections, Coincidences, and More!	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Something here ain't kosher.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  While there is no canine angle to &quot;Out of Left Field&quot; by Jeffrey and Douglas Lyons, we have noted in prior reviews that we like to read books about humans playing fetch.  On the whole, &quot;Out of Left Field&quot; is well above average for baseball trivia books.  However, we are posting this review to show that even boonie dogs can catch an error if it is obvious enough.<br />Lyons and Lyons assert that Al Rosen, the 1953 AL MVP, was the first Jewish MVP.  Hank Greenberg once said, &quot;When you're playing, awards don't seem like much.  Then you get older and all of it becomes more precious.  It is nice to be remembered.&quot;  Lyons and Lyons were not nice to the memory of the Hall of Famer and war hero who won the AL MVP award in 1935 and 1940.	1998-05-06
US	53075760	R28RJKUUHEZ5X0	0553066854	858559491	Let's Pave the Stupid Rainforests & Give School Teachers Stun Guns: And Other Ways to Save America	Books	5	7	14	N	N	We're chicken-biting happy!	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  We are chicken-biting happy about &quot;Let's Pave the Stupid Rainforests &amp; Give School Teachers Stun Guns&quot;, a collection of essays by Ed Anger.  Anger is a columnist for the Weekly World News, a newpaper that is a favorite of puppies everywhere.<br />Anger addresses many issues of importance to canines.  On the issue of dog intelligence, he wisely concludes, &quot;The more tricks a dog will do, the stupider he is.&quot;  Under this theory, we boonie dogs are geniuses!  Anger also recommends that Socks Clinton be defanged and declawed.  In a courageous editiorial, Anger suggest testing veterinary medicines on humans rather than testing human medicines on dogs.<br />Occasiionally Anger misfires, as when he asserts that a certain noncanine actress of primate derivation has an IQ slightly higher than a dog.  Perhaps such lapses are only satirical.  On the whole Anger is one of the most canine-sensitive columnists writing today.	1998-03-23
US	53075760	R8HDL1D7J5YYU	0312156146	71314820	No Human Involved	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Alas, humans involved.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  We eagerly looked forward to reading Barbara Seranella's novel &quot;No Human Involved&quot;.  Both the title and the fact that the main character is named &quot;Munch&quot; gave rise to certain expectations.<br />Alas, it turned out that nearly all of the characters in this novel are noncanine animals of primate derivation.  Even Munch is human.  This novel has two saving graces, however.  First, one of the lead characters, a police detective, does save two dogs from being &quot;put to sleep&quot; at the &quot;humane shelter&quot;.  Second, &quot;No Human Involved&quot; may be the best first novel in the crime fiction genre that we have ever read--and we had to think twice about including the word &quot;first&quot; in this sentence.	1998-03-08
US	53075760	RKTXQ4S9O5SIP	068814179X	148832051	Hit Man	Books	5	0	0	N	N	At last, a hit man who is not miscaninthropic.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  Lawrence Block's &quot;Hit Man&quot; is a breath of fresh air in the contract killer genre.  Hit men in books have tended to be miscaninthropic.  Rex Feral included a section on the elimination of guard dogs in &quot;Hit Man:  A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors&quot;.  Donald Goines' Daddy Cool murdered a German shepherd in cold blood.  However, Block's hit man, Keller, likes dogs and is a tolerably conscientious companion to a dog for a portion of this book.<br />Block's &quot;Hit Man&quot; is a collection of short stories which, taken together, form as coherent a whole as any novel.  The reader witnesses Keller's moral development over time.  We hope that Block continues writing Keller stories and developing this character.  Keller has the potential to become a canine rights activist like Rex Miller's Daniel &quot;Chaingang&quot; Bunkowski.	1998-03-08
US	53075760	R3W0FQJLIPS1LB	0553106643	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What's next?	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; by Dean Koontz picks up a couple quick strikes, but ends up with extra bases.<br />The narrator in &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; is Christopher Snow, who has xeroderma pigmentosum.  Mr. Koontz is a little behind the curve in the hero-with-a-rare-congenital-condition genre.  Chris Snow is okay, but less interesting than Kay &quot;Bug&quot; Farrow, the achromat in David Hunt's &quot;The Magician's Tale&quot;, or Paul Skoglund, the Tourette's Syndromed hero of Daniel Hecht's &quot;Skull Session&quot;.<br />The pace of &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; is sometimes maddening.  Almost the entire story takes place in one night, yet the book is 391 pages--nearly a page per minute.  When Chris Snow walks down a hallway, there is a step-by-step, foot-by-foot, inch-by-inch description.  This device can only build suspense so many times in one book.  The minute-by-minute approach of a book describing a single night worked well in &quot;A Night To Remember&quot;, Walter Lord's nonfiction account of the sinking of the Titanic.  However, Lord's book had less than half as many pages as &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;, and a much larger cast.  Only Dean Koontz could drag scenes out as much as he does here, and still keep us reading.<br />What finally elevated this book was a shift of focus nearly two-thirds of the way through, away from Chris Snow and towards his canine companion, Orson.  Dogs have produced great poetry, such as Skipper's &quot;Complacencies of the Fenced Yard&quot; in Hempel and Shepard's &quot;Unleashed:  Poems by Writers' Dogs&quot;.  Dogs have produced great drama, such as the play about Didi and Gogo, two boonie dogs thinly disguised as humans, written under the pseudonym Samuel Beckett.  Still, until one of our kind writes the great canine novel, we will have to rely upon the handful of human novelists who can portray us competently.  Dean Koontz was an alpha in that pack with characters like Einstein in &quot;Watchers&quot; and Rocky in &quot;Dark Rivers of the Heart&quot;.  Koontz then displayed a miscaninthropic streak with the bad dogs of &quot;Intensity&quot;.  In &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;, once Orson takes center stage and Chris Snow is relegated to a sidekick role like Lassie's Timmy, Koontz regains his former glory.<br />Even better, there are hints that Orson may be back in a sequel.  We may be reading too much into a passing reference, but Orson could even be teamed up with Einstein or Einstein's pups.  There is even a hint that Koontz may be working towards a world similar to that in the closing chapters of Clifford Simak's &quot;City&quot;.  Dean Koontz bears careful watching and sniffing from his canine fans for years to come.	1998-02-02
US	53075760	R2SF9NRR46DG75	0316102814	219009139	Bunny Modern: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The future of the world is--Guam!	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  We read &quot;Bunny Modern&quot; by David Bowman from a regional, rather than canine, perspective, because the book appears to be based in part upon a Guamanian riddle.  Q:  What did the ancient Chamorros (inidgenous inhabitants of Guam) use for light before they had candles?  A:  Electricty.<br />&quot;Bunny Modern&quot; is set in the New York City area in a postelectric future.  Bowman's comic science fiction novel is premised upon a worldwide blackout caused by a &quot;Morphic Aberration&quot;, rather than the typhoons and lack of maintenance on baseload generators that periodically leave Guam in the dark.  Nonetheless, much of the portrayal of postelectric life in &quot;Bunny Modern&quot; rings true.  Bowman's portrayal of the reaction when the lights finally came back on was very similar to the reaction of our noncanine animal companions of primate derivation when they recently got power back 32 days after Typhoon Paka.  &quot;Bunny Modern&quot; is a book that will entertain readers in Guam, parts of Canada and New England, or any other place that has entered the post-electric age for an extended period of time.	1998-01-27
US	53075760	R1SX9L1WHGB0Y7	0300069642	222838844	A History of Dogs in the Early Americas	Books	4	9	15	N	N	We prefer edible anthropologists.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;A History of Dogs in the Early Americas&quot; is an anthropological survey by Marion Schwartz, a research assistant at Yale.  Despite numerous illustrations, this book is written more for academics than for dog lovers.  One chapter, entitled &quot;The Edible Dog&quot;, is particularly frightening.<br />Other portions of this book, such as the sections noting the key roles played by dogs in creation myths, are inspirational.  On the whole, though, the sections on dogs as cuisine and dogs as ritual sacrifices leave us with the perhaps politically incorrect impression that, puppy mills and leash laws notwithstanding, the Conquest did more good than harm for caninekind.	1998-01-08
US	53075760	R6CIEXWCTNWVW	0393045390	930252669	Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Maybe Mosley ain't so bad, after all.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  When we reviewed Walter Mosley's book &quot;A Little Yellow Dog&quot;, we complained that it was miscaninthropic.  In Mosley's latest book, &quot;Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned&quot;, a collection of generally quite good short stories about an ex-con named Socrates Fortlow, Mosley displays an improved attitude towards canines.  In a story entitled &quot;Black Dog&quot;, Fortlow rescues a large black dog who was run over by a car.  Fortlow also punches out the driver who committed the atrocious act.  Now that dogs have moved from the status of evil nemesis to victims in need of rescue from benevolent humans in Mosley's writing, perhaps in the future Mosley will portray us in a positive light.	1997-12-23
US	53075760	R18RN4VRXFBWS	0802116175	937401692	Great Apes	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Why not &quot;Great Danes&quot;?	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  The plot of &quot;Great Apes&quot; by Will Self revolves around a chimpanzee who suffers from the delusion that he is human.  The concept of a sentient creature imagining himself to be human is not in and of itself a novel idea.  It is often alleged that overdomesticated dogs think that they are human.<br />What makes &quot;Great Apes&quot; unique and very much worth reading is that Self places his deluded chimp in a world where chimps are the dominant species.  The portrayal of a chimpocentric culture is engrossing.  Our only objection is that, in Self's planet of the chimps, dogs are beasts of burden, much like horses in our world.  Of course, no primate species could achieve civilization without the companionship, protection and subtle guidance provided by dogs.  Nevertheless, putting aside Self's mishandling of dogs in his brave new world, &quot;Great Apes&quot; will give humans some insight into what this planet would be like if our canine ancestors had decided to be chimp's best friend rather than befriend early humans.	1997-12-16
US	53075760	R148WXKSGTJ0Q1	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	To Xavier and beyond.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  We decided to read Maria Doria Russell's novel &quot;The Sparrow&quot; when we learned that it involved a Jesuit mission to another planet.  We suspected there could be similarities with the actual early Jesuit missions to our part of the world.  Sure enough, Father Emilio Sandoz, the lead character in &quot;The Sparrow&quot;, had a year teaching at Xavier High School in Chuuk on his resume as a qualification for an interplanetary mission.<br />We are also interested in fictional accounts about interaction between humans and other sentient species, since our species has been involved in such interactions with humans for several thousands of years.  In &quot;The Sparrow&quot;, the relations between the humans are more compelling than the relations between humans and the inhabitants of the planet Rakhat.  This is a fantastic book, but the characterization and pacing did more to hold our interest than the science fiction elements.  We wonder if &quot;The Sparrow&quot; would have been just as interesting if it had been written as an account of a Jesuit mission to Micronesia a few centuries ago.	1997-11-24
US	53075760	R3PLP56VD1LTFY	0195107179	641797473	Beyond All Reason: The Radical Assault on Truth in American Law	Books	4	8	18	N	N	Three generations of deconstructionists . . .	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  &quot;Beyond All Reason&quot;, by Daniel A. Farber and Suzanna Sherry, may be the most interesting book we have read about the weird yipping and yapping in academia since David Lehman's &quot;Sign of the Times&quot;.  Farber and Sherry discuss the influence of deconstruction and radical so-called multiculturalism in American law schools.  We dogs are amused by the bumbling efforts of human deconstructionists, since no professor can literally deconstruct a text as well as we can.  Every day, thousands of human puppies claim that their dogs have deconstructed their homework.<br />Sherry and Farber neglect two topics.  They discuss the effect that academic fads have had on law school faculties and social policy, but do not discuss the effect of such fads on the actual students.  Most law students are not professors in training, but are reptiles in training trying to learn a trade.  Is a trend towards spending law school class time on political indoctrination resulting in graduates with insufficient practical training to be competent in matters such as defending alleged criminals and drafting wills?<br />Second, while Sherry and Farber discuss one form of CLS, critical legal studies, they ignore the more important CLS, canine legal studies.  Most dog law in the United States is created by human caniphobes.  Just consider a few examples:  leash laws;  the concept of dogs as chattel; and dog pound sterilization policies based on Justice Holmes' chilling dictum, &quot;Three generations of chicken-killing curs is enough.&quot;	1997-11-20
US	53075760	R3NSB2H0GMBHO5	0836221850	916169700	The Museum of Bad Art: Art Too Bad to Be Ignored	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Bad but true.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  The catalog of the Musem of Bad Art, &quot;The Museum of Bad Art:  Art Too Bad to Be Ignore&quot;, by Tom Stankowicz and Marie Jackson, is one of the most fascinating art books we have ever perused.  Indeed, the only art books we have enjoyed more are canicentric works such as &quot;Funny Dogs&quot;, edited by Jean-Claude Suares, and Andrea Mohin's &quot;New York Dogs&quot;.<br />As bad as the works displayed in this book are, many of them still have an element of inner truth.  &quot;In the Cat's Mouth&quot; and &quot;Peter the Cat&quot; both capture the parasitic, pompous, evil nature of cats.  From a canine perspective, many of the paintings of humans in this collection are not too different from our perceptions of noncanine animals of primate derivation.  Perhaps some of these &quot;bad&quot; paintings were actually painted by dogs making fun of their &quot;masters&quot;.  Finally, the bulging eyes and frightening smile of the dog in the mixed media piece &quot;The Cupboard Was Bare&quot; give it an eerie resemblance to Kansas.	1997-11-08
US	53075760	RD8P5ZUX6TNG2	0312851715	931478103	Dogland	Books	5	6	18	N	N	Pet Rock Land?	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  The title of Will Shetterly's novel &quot;Dogland&quot; refers to a tourist attraction in early 1960's Florida, a sort of dog zoo where tourists can view several dozen breeds of dogs.  Given this title, we expected a canicentric plot.  Unfortunately, for about ninety percent of the book, Dogland may as well have been Pet Rock Land.  Even minor human characters were developed far more fully than any of the dogs.<br />Instead of being a dog story, &quot;Dogland&quot; is yet another coming-of-age tale about a human puppy.  While we boonie dogs are not thrilled about this genre, this once we are kind of glad that the author used a doggish title to get this book into our paws.  Shetterly made the time, place, and human characters interesting enough to hold our attention until the dogs at long last took center stage.	1997-11-08
US	53075760	R2IB83ENHTHLG1	0802130348	608650234	Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Waiting for Dogot?	This is another boonie dog review by Wolfie and Kansas.  The play &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot;, allegedly by the human playwright Samuel Beckett, fills a major void in the literary canon.<br />Some humans find this play perplexing.  To us dogs, much of the hidden meaning of &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot; is as clear as the odor of day-old road kill.  The lead characters, Didi and Gogo, laze around by the side of a country road, waiting for whatever, yipping and yapping about whatever comes to mind, gnawing on chicken bones, and sniffing boots.  Didi and Gogo are boonie dogs, like us!  The enslaved character Lucky is a domestic &quot;pet&quot;, housebroken and &quot;fixed&quot; (i.e., broken).  Pozzo is a parody of a not atypical pompous human self-proclaimed &quot;pet owner&quot;.  The remaining character, the boy, may represent the quintessential, but often somewhat clueless, noncanine animal companion of primate derivation, Lassie's Timmy.  The sole prop in the play's scenery, a tree, has obvious uses and significance for canines.<br />Godot could be God, or an alpha mail who will lead a raid on a restaurant dumpster, a bitch in heat, a human bearing Milk Bones, or a noisy truck to be chased.  Godot represents all of the things that we wait for when we hang out by the roadside.<br />Once the reader understands the true meaning of &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot;, it is clear that this play was written by a dog.  Just as women used to publish under male pseudonyms, and blacklisted screenwriters used fronts, so the anonymous canine who wrote this play had to put a human playwright's name on his or her work in order to have it staged and accepted.  We believe that plays should be seen, heard and smelled, rather than read.  However, until &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot; is properly staged with a canine cast, it can perhaps best be enjoyed by reading the script.<br />Dogs have already produced classic poetry, such as Skipper's &quot;Complacencies of the Fenced Yard&quot;, published in &quot;Unleashed:  Poems by Writers' Dogs&quot;.  Now we know a dog has written &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot;, a classic play.  This only heightens our aniticipation as we await the coming of the great canine novel.	1997-11-03
US	53075760	R3TGE3B96DLMVN	0671888048	857519991	Oedipus the King (Enriched Classics Series)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The buck stops with Oedipus.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  Usually plays should be seen and heard, not read.  &quot;Oedipus the King&quot; by Sophocles is an exception to this rule.  Why do booksellers hide this play in such unappetizing categories as &quot;literature&quot; and &quot;drama&quot;?  With the violence, gore, sex and new-age prophecy and paganism in &quot;Oedipus the King&quot;, it should be placed in a better-selling category, such as mysteries, thrillers, horror, or sword and sorcery.<br />We did become concerned when we read one scene early in the play.  After a priest tells King Oedipus how a plague has ravished his kingdom, Oedipus responds with a speech that boils down to &quot;I feel your pain.&quot;  Whenever a head of state sounds like a certain notorious cat owner, we get nervous.  Fortunately for the plot of this play, if not for Oedipus himself, once he became a suspect accused of patricide and incest, he did more than just claim that he had never inhaled.	1997-10-21
US	53075760	R3P0PXDGH4YIJH	0385318332	375548904	A Single Shot	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Alas, poor Mutt! - We knew him not.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  In the opening paragraph of &quot;A Single Shot&quot;, a suspenseful novel by Matthew F. Jones, the ill-fated main character, John Moon, &quot;put out food for his wandering dog.&quot;  This immediately established Moon as a sympathetic character in our eyes.  However, the reader barely gets to meet this dog, the wonderfully named Mutt, before Mutt is killed by an evil human.  In a brief de facto eulogy, Jones makes it clear that Mutt was a true mainland boonie dog.<br />We guess that Jones had to write Mutt out of the book quickly.  Otherwise, Mutt would have stolen several scenes, just like the dog did in Frederick Busch's mystery, &quot;Girls&quot;.  While the canine scene-stealing worked in &quot;Girls&quot;, a similar performance by Mutt in &quot;A Single Shot&quot; would have broken the mood that Jones establishes.  At least Mutt's murderer got what he deserved before &quot;A Single Shot&quot; was over.  Similarly, readers of &quot;A Single Shot&quot; get what they deserve, in that time spent reading this often powerful and frightening book is well rewarded.	1997-10-19
US	53075760	R2TZC9A631AEFC	0374272093	292623722	The Superlative Man	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Up on the bookshelf! It's a mystery! It's a comic! It's...	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  The inside-the-jacket blurb for Herbert Thomas's novel &quot;The Superlative Man&quot; compares it to Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett mysteries.  The title, which refers to a flying costumed hero, brings to mind comic books.  This book most closely resembles the &quot;Marvels&quot; series that Marvel Comics put out a few years ago, in which the story of superheroes was told from the vantage point of a normal human observer.  Like &quot;Marvels&quot;, &quot;The Superlative Man&quot; addresses the questions of what it is like to be human in a world with superhumans, and whether a mere human can make a difference in such a world.<br />By focusing on the adventures of a normal human, not-so-mild-mannered reporter Harvey Gander (alter ego of no one), and by keeping the Superlative Man in the background, Thomas helps the reader suspend  disbelief to an extent we have not found possible when reading novelizations featuring established comic-book superheros.  This focus of the book may explain one omission.  The events in &quot;The Superlative Man&quot; seem to take place at a time corresponding to the late &quot;Golden Age&quot; or early &quot;Silver Age&quot; of superhero comics.  During this time, Superman teamed up with Krypto, Batman fought crime alongside Bat-hound, etc..  However, nowhere in the pages of Herbert Thomas's novel do we encounter Superlative Dog.	1997-10-19
US	53075760	RZWCOQ2XC5P4Z	0684810107	107101566	Doo-dah!: Stephen Foster and the Rise of American Popular Culture	Books	5	11	28	N	N	Bow-wow!	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  Ken Emerson's book &quot;Doo-dah!  Stephen Foster and the Rise of American Popular Culture&quot; is well-written and informative.  This is a &quot;life and times&quot; book, rather than a narrowly focused biography.  However, the times of Stephen Foster, and the social and cultural history which Emerson discusses, are, like Foster's music, generally more interesting than the sometimes racist and alcoholic Foster himself.<br />Our one complaint about &quot;Doo-dah!&quot; is the short shrift Mr. Emerson gives to one of Stephen Foster's biggest hits in 1857, a song entitled &quot;Old Dog Tray&quot;.  We would have like to have learned more about this song.  Foster's minstrel songs were performed by white men in blackface.  Was &quot;Old Dog Tray&quot; performed by humans in dogface?	1997-10-16
US	53075760	R1MKYW1PT84MYF	1565120612	857968327	Where Trouble Sleeps	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A good book, but it could use more Trouble and more trouble.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  The title of Clyde Edgerton's novel, &quot;Where Trouble Sleeps&quot;, is a pun on a dog's name.  The dog, Trouble, stays at a gas station at the main crossroads in a small, 1950's North Carolina town.  The humans there predict the weather based on whether Trouble sleeps inside or outside.  There is also trouble sleeping in the town's only motel, as a mysterious and malevolent stranger, Jack Umstead, decides to stay over a spell while passing through on his way north.<br />With a dog's name in the title and a small town Southern locale, we were expecting canicentric literature like Brad Watson's &quot;Last Days of the Dog-Men&quot;.  However, Trouble makes only brief appearances.  The trouble, meanwhile, never reaches &quot;Cape Fear&quot; levels.  Umstead is a somewhat bumbling con man, and not a menacing figure like Mitchum or DeNiro.  &quot;Where Trouble Sleeps&quot; is very well written.  The two maps in the book, taken together, tell a story and prove that two pictures are worth two thousand words.  While this book will doubtlessly please many readers, it just had too little Trouble and too little trouble to fully satisfy our boonie dog taste.	1997-10-08
US	53075760	R4X1V5UVFPHSM	0870679643	212060323	Daddy Cool	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Why are hit men so miscaninthropic?	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  The novel &quot;Daddy Cool&quot; by Donald Goines is about a professional hit man.  In the opening pages, the hit man murders a watch dog in cold blood.  In his book &quot;Hit Man:  A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors&quot;, Rex Feral has a section on bumping off watch dogs.  We wonder what is wrong with North American hit men.  Here on Guam, crooks realize it is easier to bribe us to be quiet with canned meat than to kill us.<br />As we were reading &quot;Daddy Cool&quot;, we thought we found a few things to nitpick about--an occasional scene that strained our willing suspension of disbelief, a passage here and there that seemed too brusque.  However, when we finished the book, we realized the sun was setting.  We had spent the entire afternoon reading &quot;Daddy Cool&quot; straight through in one sitting, without taking a single break to munch on Milk Bones, bark at passing traffic, or chase a cat.  That does not happen to us often.  The power and sustained suspense of Goines's writing just snuck up on us.  That is why we give &quot;Daddy Cool&quot; a high rating despite the miscaninthropic opening.	1997-10-08
US	53075760	R1KCG97LAXMU0C	0553105248	370682170	Digger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Inspirational!	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  We really dug Joseph Flynn's novel &quot;Digger&quot;.  Ever since the tunnel rats stole the show in Stephen Hunter's &quot;The Day Before Midnight&quot;, we've waited for a thriller giving subterranean Vietnam veterans a leading role.  Mr. Hunter went back to snipers, but Mr. Flynn has come through with a superb tunnel rat book that has action, a mystery, and some spirituality.<br />&quot;Digger&quot; tells the story of how some former tunnel rats used the tunnels they dug under their midwestern home town to intervene in a violent labor dispute.  We found &quot;Digger&quot; to be truly inspirational.  After reading this book, we dug two new tunnels under the fence surrounding our yard.	1997-10-06
US	53075760	RN6CX548I41MQ	038097505X	416150558	Island of the Sequined Love Nun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ho sa hachegcheg, Christopher Moore!	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  We are reviewing Christopher Moore's &quot;Island of the Sequined Love Nun&quot; from a regional perspective, rather than our usual canine perspective, even though the book contains one vignette portraying the suffering of our boonie brethren on Chuuk.<br />We began this book with the preconception that we would be offended by a stereotypical story of supposedly ignorant &quot;natives&quot; who need to be rescued by a heroic haole (or &quot;repsech&quot;, since most of the action takes place on a Yap outer island.)  We were happy to find that this novel satirizes the genre as much as it adheres to it.  While Mr. Moore took a lot of artistic license, as he acknowledges in an afterword, the reader will nonetheless gain more insights into Chuuk, Yap and travel on the Micro Spirit than one would get from a typical travelogue.<br />Moore's fictional island of Alualu is a hodgepodge.  The map of Alualu looks a good deal like Falalop, Ulithi, although Alualu is an isolated single island like Satawal.  The mixed Yapese/outer island culture may be based on Ngulu.  The Alualuans have a Faisian appetite for shark, a Pohnpeian thirst for sakau (kava), and a Melanesian cargo cult.  Moore fully develops the characters of several of the Alualuans, and gives a plausible explanation for their susceptability to a cargo cult.  Our willing suspension of disbelief was strained only by one premise.  One reason given for the islander's gullibility as to one scam was their supposed ignorance of internal human anatomy.  The Alualuans were stated to be only a generation removed from cannabalism, with at least one ex-cannibal still living.  Micronesians have a tradition of oral history, and they enjoy talking about food.  Surely the Alualuans would have more knowledge of human anatomy than average Americans.<br />Nitpicking aside, &quot;Island of the Sequined Love Nun&quot; is a rollicking, funny yet suspenseful tale that should please all readers.  It is a special treat for any but the most politically correct readers out here in the Western Pacific.  In the languages of various characters in the novel, with apologies if we are not up to date on the latest orthographies, we can only say, &quot;Christopher Moore, ho sa hachegcheg, kamaagar, kiniso chapur, and salamat.&quot;	1997-10-03
US	53075760	R30FWPQTFEXCG6	0805031014	127436277	The Return of the Wolf to Yellowstone	Books	5	3	12	N	N	A modest boonie proposal	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  We thoroughly enjoyed Thomas McNamee's &quot;The Return of the Wolf to Yellowstone&quot;.  The problem with books by tree-huggers is that their prose is often wooden.  Thomas McNamee's prose is meaty, not wooden.  This book is very readable, and McNamee maintains suspense throughout concerning the fate of individual wolves, packs, and the entire gray wolf reintroduction project.<br />&quot;The Return of the Wolf to Yellowstone&quot; discusses not only the actions of wolves, but also the political and legal machinations of noncanine animals of primate derivation.  The anti-wolf humans do not want anything as feral as canis lupus running loose in national parks.  Pro-wolf humans believe the parks' ecosystems require something more feral than canis lapdog.  We have a modest proposal to prevent similar disputes the next time a national park needs an infusion of canis something.  According to local human politricksters, Guam has a surplus of canis boonie.  As a result, boonie dogs are rounded up and sent to the euphemistically-named &quot;shelter&quot; to be even-more-euphemistically &quot;put to sleep&quot;.  GovGuam  could resolve its alleged boonie dog overpopulation problem more humanely (and more caninely) by sending its surplus boonie dogs to a mainland national park.  Our jungle survival skills, combined with our disinclination to attack carabao, make boonie dogs the perfect canis compromisus for both environmentalists and ranchers.	1997-10-02
US	53075760	RHS48GV51S1NG	156639466X	20349775	The Whiz Kids And the 1950 Pennant (Baseball In America)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Last gasp of an old regime	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  We were somewhat amused when we first heard the title of Robin Roberts and C. Paul Rogers III's book, &quot;The Whiz Kids and the 1950 Pennant&quot;.  To us dogs, a &quot;whiz kid&quot; is an unhousebroken puppy.  However, these Whiz Kids were the Philadelphia Phillies baseball team, and this is a book about humans playing fetch.  While this is not a literary gem like Roger Kahn's &quot;The Boys of Summer&quot;, it is an above-average baseball book comparable to another recent book by a pitcher from the same era, Don Larsen's &quot;The Perfect Yankee&quot;.  We recommend this book to all baseball fans.  It is in the must-read category for any Phillies fan.<br />We do have two reservations about &quot;The Whiz Kids and the 1950 Pennant&quot;.  The first concerns the portrayal of Jim Konstanty, the relief pitcher who was the 1950 National League MVP.  One of our noncanine animal companions of primate derivation (who has loaned us his habit of shameless namedropping for purposes of this review) was a regular customer at Mr. Konstanty's sporting goods store in the mid-1960's.  He remembers Mr. Konstanty as being far more personable than one would gather from this book.  Of course, the pressures of making a record number of appearances during a tight pennant race could affect one's affability.<br />Also, while not shying away from the issue, Roberts and Rogers do not fully develop the ironic theme that the Whiz Kids, a supposed youth movement and potential future dynasty, were actually the dying embers of a fading era.  The 1950 Phillies were the last all-white National League pennant winners, edging out the Jackie Robinson/Roy Campanella/Don Newcombe Dodgers in extra innings on the final day of the season.  With the Phillies management dragging its heels as to recruiting and signing the best available ballplayers regardless of race, the remainder of the National League pennants in the 1950's went to the Dodgers, the Giants (with Willie Mays and Monte Irvin) and the Braves (with Hank Aaron).  (Given the arguments as to whether the current millenium ends in 1999 or 2000, we should perhaps add the 1960 Pirates with Roberto Clemente to that list.)  Not only did this relegate the Phillies to the second division, but it probably also cost author Roberts the chance to win 300 games.  It would be interesting to see David Halberstram analyze the 1950 National League pennant race in a manner similar to his analysis of the 1964 World Series in &quot;October 1964&quot;	1997-09-20
US	53075760	R1PJ3J5LYHLBZ0	0517708140	879743301	The Rear View: A Brief and Elegant History of Bottoms Through the Ages	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One picture, and one tail, are worth a thousand words.	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  Jean-Luc Hennig's book &quot;The Rear View&quot; is a collection of essays and vignettes about the human backside.  &quot;The Rear View&quot; may be the best book of this subject since J.F. Federspiel's novel &quot;Laura's Skin&quot;.  However, while &quot;The Rear View&quot; is often cute and clever, it has two major faults.<br />First, this book reads as if Hennig had written the text for a coffee-table book (albeit one to be placed on coffee tables in high-class bordellos), only to have an editor remove most of the pictures at the last minute to keep the price down.  Much of the book discusses notable paintings and photographs of human buttocks, but since the pictures are not reproduced, it is sometimes hard to make sense of the text.  The book's handful of black-and-white pictures is not adequate to illustrate the many points which Mr. Hennig seeks to make.<br />This book also devotes nothing more than a passing mention to the major inadequacy of human hindquarters--the absence of a tail.  Doubtlessly the human practice of bobbing the tails of some dogs is just a vengeful and violent expression of human tail envy.  One reason that humans talk so much is that you must chatter endlessly to convey emotions that we dogs can express with a simple wag	1997-09-17
US	53075760	RZF1BU3BN3P68	0811816583	481494557	New York Dogs	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Maybe it really is a nice place to visit.	This is another boonie dog book review by Wolfie and Kansas.  When we heard the title of Andrea Mohin's book of photographs, &quot;New York Dogs&quot;, we thought it was more than a little oxymoronic.  After all, how could dogs adapt to New York City?  Imagine spending most of your life stuck in a small apartment, never being able to run free in the jungle chasing wild chickens, having humans follow you with a pooper scooper whenever you go for a stroll.  When our noncanine animal companions of primate derivation first adopted Wolfie, they lived in an apartment complex in semi-urbanized Tamuning.  Wolfie promptly ate the blinds, dug up flowers, barked at caniphobic neighbors, made messes in the neighbors' parking stalls, and forced our humans to spend their life savings to buy a house with a large yard bordering the boonies in Toto.<br />We were surprised to find that most of the dogs pictured in Ms. Mohin's book appear happy and healthy in their urban environment.  Ms. Mohin's introductory essay also makes New York City seem reasonably hospitable for dogs.  After seeing &quot;New York Dogs&quot;, we've decided that maybe the Big Apple is not such a bad place after all:  all those cars to chase;  all those dumpsters and garbage cans to raid;  and all those dogs in Ms. Mohin's pictures whom we'd like to meet.  We still would not want to live in New York, but this book has convinced us that it might not be a bad place to visit (if we could get around the stupid quarantine laws.	1997-09-12
US	53075760	RVZDQO0LZD921	1565111206	435503478	Why Do Catholics Do That?	Books	4	2	12	N	N	Catholicism made simple	This is another boonie dog review from Wolfie and Kansas.  We listened to the audio cassettes of Kevin Orlin Johnson's &quot;Why Do Catholics Do That?&quot; because we live half a block away from a Catholic church, and we have many questions about Catholics.  For example, do Catholics have regular traffic jams and processions in front of our yard because they like to hear us bark?  If Catholics share our canine belief in a vigilant but kind supreme being who watches over His/Her flock, why do they continue to spell that deity's name backwards in English?<br />Dr. Johnson does not answer these particular questions.  He does answer a lot of others.  This is not a balanced or critical work (and not intended as such.)  You will not hear the word &quot;inquisition&quot; a single time despite much discussion of the Church's history.  Nonetheless, if you are a boonie dog on an island where ninety percent of the noncanine animals of primate derivation are Catholic, this tape is a good introduction and overview that will give you some idea just what those Catholic humans are doing and, as the title says, why they do it	1997-09-11
US	53075760	R339YPF4V8TIBE	0312152035	707706287	Room 13	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Goosebumps for grownups	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  The plot of Henry Garfield's &quot;Room 13&quot; sounds like the plot of a &quot;Goosebumps&quot; story for puppies.  This novel involves a haunted high school classroom and a school busdriver, Cyrus &quot;Moondog&quot; Nygerski, who may be a werewolf.  While this sounds like a description of an episode of Nickelodeon's &quot;Who's Afraid of the Dark?&quot;, this novel is actually very clever and suspenseful.  &quot;Room 13&quot; will hold the attention of the adult reader.<br />We do have two reservations about &quot;Room 13&quot;.  First, this book reflects the biased human assumption that lycanthropy is some sort of problem or disease.  We think that any condition that makes a human more canine-like could be an improvement.  Second, there was one item in this book that put too much strain on our willing suspension of disbelief.  We can accept werewolves and ghosts.  However, before becoming a busdriver, Moondog Nygerski allegedly played minor league baseball--as a left-handed second baseman!  We know a little about humans playing fetch, and a southpaw second baseman in professional baseball is a little too farfetched even for a ghost story.  This little problem aside, we liked the Moondog character.  We hope that someday he can meet up with one of our other favorite fictional heroes, Rex Miller's Daniel &quot;Chaingang&quot; Bunkowski	1997-09-06
US	53075760	R15ADSVE0X9L67	0834802686	411310429	The Animal Court: A Political Fable from Old Japan	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Humanity is guilty!	This is another boonie dog book review from Wolfie and Kansas.  We like the Japanese people, because the Japanese tourists we have met on Guam pet us and pose for pictures with us.  Ando Shoeki's fable &quot;The Animal Court&quot;, written in the eighteenth century, gives us another reason to like Japan and its people.  In Shoeki's parable, the birds, beasts (mammals), creatures (insects, reptiles and amphibians) and fish each hold an assembly to discuss human society and compare it to their own.  Some of Shoeki's ideas are strange, both by the standards of his time and place and ours.  Nonetheless, he has a positive attitude towards animals.  For example, he asserts that we dogs are sages, because both dogs and human sages yap at shadows.<br />The blurb on the back cover of this book describes it as Swiftian.  In some ways, it would be more accurate to describe &quot;The Animal Court&quot; as Orwellian.  In George Orwell's &quot;Animal Farm&quot;, &quot;[t]he creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again, but it was already impossible to say which was which.&quot;  The animals in Shoeki's tribunals compare human society to their own, and find very little difference.  One of the few differences, according to Shoeki, is that the behavior of beasts is largely guided by instinct, while humans make a conscious choice to behave in a beastly manner	1997-08-31
US	53075760	R39N1AXYO077CW	1888869054	408692152	Bots: The Origin of New Species	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Of Dogz and Men	This is another book review from Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  We approached Andrew Leonard's &quot;Bots&quot;  The Origin of New Species&quot; with trepidation.  We dogs have a lot of trouble with scientific and technical matters.  As Gary Larson noted in &quot;The Far Side&quot;, the greatest dog scientists in the world have yet to unravel the mysterious workings of the doorknob.  Before we read &quot;Bots&quot;, the only computer or internet book we had been able to understand was &quot;Dave Barry in Cyberspace&quot;.  We were relieved to discover that Andrew Leonard is one of those rare writers, like Ed Regis, who makes technical and scientific matters comprehensible, and often interesting, even to a boonie dog.<br />There are parallels between &quot;Bots&quot; and another recent book, Mark Derr's &quot;Dog's Best Friend&quot;.  Both Leonard and Derr divide their books largely into chapters that are based upon different tasks or functions performed by the species at issue.  Both emphasize that they are discussing a species in which evolution is often guided by humans.  For bots and dogs, survival of the fittest is often determined by utitility or appeal to humans.  Both Leonard and Derr note that humans are not always successful at playing god, having produced both spambots and vicious pitbulls.<br />Andrew Leonard indirectly raises another issue of great concern to dogs.  He discusses PF Magic's bot cyberpets, Catz and Dogz.  Leonard states that bot writer Profesor Ken Schweller speaks of bots &quot;with a gentle affection, as if they were golden retrievers.&quot;  One might think that we real dogs would worry that humans would replace us with bots.  That need not be the case if writers like Mr. Leonard continue to explain things to us so well that we dogs can understand and interact with bots.  After all, in Clifford Simak's classic science fiction novel &quot;City&quot;, it was the dogs and the robots who ultimately got together and decided that the humans were expendable	1997-08-28
US	53075760	R2S7NZFPO5RICC	0671748483	839451580	Savant	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A hero for the hounds!	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Rex Miller's novel &quot;Savant&quot; is the third in a series featuring Daniel &quot;Chaingang&quot; Bunkowski.  Chaingang is a 450-pound serial killer with a genius IQ, a mastery of explosives, and the ability to use halitosis as a martial art.<br />In our review of the second Chaingang novel, which was entitled &quot;Chaingang&quot;, we noted that Daniel Bunkowski was almost a tragic hero, rather than a villain.  He had been an abused child, whose only friend was an equally abused dog.  As a result, many of the adult Chaingang's chosen victims were people who had abused dogs.  In the book &quot;Chaingang&quot;, however, a majority of Chaingang's victims were innocent people who got in his way through random bad luck.  In &quot;Savant&quot;, Chaingang has become more moral and more focused.  The vast majority of the many people that Chaingang blows up, dismembers, chainwhips, shoots, crucifies, and/or eats in &quot;Savant&quot; are abusers of animals.  Chaingang takes care of these miscreants while the book builds towards a showdown between him and a mass murdering sniper.  (Readers may notice that the sniper utters a line later stolen by Cyrus the Virus in the movie &quot;Con Air&quot;.)<br />Now that Chaingang has done a &quot;face turn&quot; from random serial killer to animal rights vigilante, we wonder why he remains so obscure.  Where is &quot;Chaingang:  The Movie&quot;?  When will Marvel Comics publish a Chaingang/Punisher team-up?  When will Disney produce an animated feature, &quot;101 Dalmations, Part 2:  Chaingang vs. Cruella DeVille&quot;	1997-08-20
US	53075760	RL0LN5CA1N6FL	080505118X	969938418	The Collector Collector: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	We were almost bowled over.	This is another book review from Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  The narrator of Tibor Fischer's novel &quot;The Collector Collector&quot; is a 5,000-year old ceramic bowl.  (Since the bowl never divulges its name, we'll refer to it below as Mr. Bowl.)  Mr. Bowl relates both its present-day adventures with Rosa, a London art appraiser, and numerous tales about other humans it has known in the past several millenia.<br />This book is very clever, and sometimes laugh-out-loud funny.  The modern human characters and the situations they get themselves into are consistently amusing.  Some of Mr. Bowl's flashbacks are fascinating.  There is only one thing missing here.  In 5,000 years of existence, Mr. Bowl apparently never served as a dog food bowl.  At least he does not recount any tales of memorable canines.  Don't Mr. Bowl and Mr. Fischer know that the two most famous bowls or bowl-like objects in the history of literature are a Grecian urn--and Snoopy's supper dish	1997-08-07
US	53075760	R5B62KJFZ99FM	0060927720	115589618	Why Dogs Are Better Than Republicans	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Dogs are better than all politicians.	This is another book review from Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Jennifer Berman's &quot;Why Dogs Are Better Than Republicans&quot; has obvious strengths.  The book is a collection of generally very cute cartoons that show, quite truthfully, why dogs are better than Republicans.  In addition, inside the back cover there is a picture of the cartoonist with three good-looking dogs who seem quite content with her company, leading us to believe she must be a nice person, for a human.<br />Despite these obvious strenghts, the book only tells part of the story.  While we may be better than Republicans, we still sometimes find them preferable to Democrats.  The Democrats are the party of more and bigger government.  More government means more leash laws.  When someone tells a boonie dog, &quot;I'm from the government, I'm here to help you&quot;, they usually mean, &quot;I'm from the dog pound and I'm here to neuter you.&quot;  (To be fair, we should note that sometimes it is hard to tell the law-and-order Republicans from the Democrats on these issues.  In the last election for mayor of Toto, both a left-wing Leninist Democrat and a right-wing Mussolinian Republican ran on platforms of rounding up stray dogs.)<br />Putting aside human ideology, we dogs tend to divide human politicians into two groups.  There are dog politicians, such as Fala's FDR, George Bush, and even ear-pulling LBJ.  Then there are --grrrr--cat politicians, like Bill Clinton.<br />Jennifer Berman criticizes Tricky Dick's cynical use of Checkers.  However, her effort to use the popularity of dogs to advance the image of a party of leash-law-lovers and a cat-President is nearly as cynical.  A three-page section on &quot;Why Dogs Are Better Than Democrats&quot; at the end of this book was not enough.  While this was an entertaining book, it would have been better if the subject had been &quot;Why Dogs Are Better Than All Politicians&quot;, or, better yet, &quot;Why Dogs Are Better Than Humans&quot;	1997-08-04
US	53075760	R1LKDQG1OXEOY9	0671748475	939694662	Chaingang	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A tragic near-hero	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Rex Miller's novel &quot;Chaingang&quot; features one of the most interesting human characters we have come across in our reading.  Daniel Edward Flowers &quot;Chaingang&quot; Bunkowski has the body of King Kong Bundy--and the personality of Ted Bundy, with both the intellect and some of the personality of Hannibal Lecter and a Terminator robot thrown in.  He also has the combat skills of &quot;Rogue Warrior&quot; Richard Marcinko, combined with the ability to use halitosis as a martial art.<br />Bunkowski is treated as a monster and serial killer.  However, if one looks at the motivation for his homicidal behavior, it becomes tragically clear how close he came to becoming a great hero.<br />Bunkowski was an abused child whose closest friend was an abused dog.  Bunkowski and the dog were often locked in the closet together.  As a result, when Chaingang grew up and developed his strength, intellect and assasination skills, he sought out and killed dog abusers.  If Chaingang only killed dog abusers, he would be a heroic vigilante, an inspiration equal to other fictional heroes such as Tarzan, Doc Savage, Lamont Cranston and Gilgamesh.  However, Chaingang has a tendency to get carried away and kill a dozen or so innocent humans for every dog abuser he rightfully punishes.<br />The book &quot;Chaingang&quot; is a fun read, with lots of action, a good mystery, and a couple other interesting human characters besides Bunkowski. While this book is an excellent thriller, if Chaingang Bunkowski had been a little more selective in this targets, &quot;Chaingang&quot; could have been a classic of heroic literature	1997-08-02
US	53075760	R11CFYNV0ODBJF	0312961758	495089	Lie Down With Dogs	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Seneca was wrong.	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  The title of Jan Gleiter's &quot;Lie Down With Dogs&quot; comes from a quotation from the Roman philosopher Senecus, which is reprinted at the start of the novel:  &quot;Lie down with dogs, get up with fleas.&quot;  Grrr . . . .  No sane flea would ever abandon one of our furry hides in favor of some relatively hairless noncanine animal of primate derivation.<br />From this inauspicious beginning, &quot;Lie Down With Dogs&quot; improves rather quickly.  These days, one would expect a book in the mystery/thriller genre entitled &quot;Lie Down With Dogs&quot; to include a heavy dose of bestiality.  Instead, the canine character, Sirius, is treated throughout with proper respect, although he fades too much into the background for several chapters.  This book has no sex, drugs, profanity, severed body parts, or Hannibal Lecter wannabes.  Instead it has a plot that moves along quite nicely, and a couple lead human characters who grow on the reader more quickly than they grow on each other.  &quot;Lie Down With Dogs&quot; is a book that adults will enjoy but that can also be shared with human puppies in the &quot;young adult&quot; age range	1997-07-27
US	53075760	R1VQ6VRKU0AZ9A	0399142606	932552037	The Magician's Tale	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Almost has it all.	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  While &quot;The Magician's Tale&quot; by David Hunt does not have any canine angles, there were a couple aspects of the book that drew it to our attention.  First, the lead character, photographer Kay Farrow, is color-blind but has strong night vision.  In other words, she literally sees the world almost like we do.  Second, as accomplished escape artists (collars, fenced yards, etc.), we have an interest in magic.  Hunt makes excellent use of stage and street magic in this book.<br />&quot;The Magician's Tale&quot; has serial murders, kinky sex, conspiracies, numerous fascinating characters, San Francisco, Anne-Ricean sensuality, martial arts--everything but a dog.  Despite all these elements, the book is generally so well-written and well-paced that it only rarely strains the reader's capacity for willing suspension of disbelief.  For once the blurbs on a book jacket--&quot;atmospheric, kinky and brooding&quot;, &quot;street-smart&quot;, &quot;very intense&quot;, &quot;seductively written&quot;, &quot;compellingly suspenseful&quot;--are true	1997-07-25
US	53075760	RX1ID46LFHYBT	0805040633	756506436	Dog's Best Friend: Annals of the Dog-Human Relationship	Books	5	10	15	N	N	BOONIE DOGS RULE!	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  When we saw the fetching picture on the cover of &quot;Dog's Best Friend&quot;, we thought the book would be primarily about dogs.  Actually, the book is more about the humans who breed, train and work and play with dogs.  While we think a concentration on dogs would have been more interesting, the sections on these humans are generally pretty good.  The book also contains some fascinating history of the dog-human relationship, and even a couple mentions of our island.<br />While the individual humans profiled in this book almost all qualify as dogs' best friends, the theme running through this book is that many humans and human organizations have been harming dogs.  This harm is done in two ways.  First, humans have a negative effect on dog behavior through misguided and cruel training.  Author Mark Derr comes close to agreeing with our position that there is no such thing as a bad dog.  There are only good dogs trained by bad humans.  We do have some  reservations about Derr's opinions as to what constitutes &quot;good&quot; or &quot;bad&quot; dog behavior.  For example, Derr agrees with our noncanine animal companions of primate derivation that chasing cars is &quot;bad&quot;.<br />Author Derr also asserts that humans harm dogs genetically by inbreeding purebreds.  Derr praises the hybrid vigor of mixed-breed dogs, i.e.--us!  Indeed, the physical description of &quot;the perfect dog&quot; in the final chapter of &quot;Dog's Best Friend&quot; is very close to a description of Wolfie.<br />We have seen Derr's theories about the genetic superiority of boonie dogs confirmed here in Toto.  Foolish humans here spend hundreds or even thousands of dollars to import purebreds, who die within a rew weeks of exposure to local parasites that we barely notice.  Meanwhile, boonie dogs are often sent to the slammer (&quot;shelter&quot;) to be killed (&quot;put to sleep&quot;) or broken (&quot;fixed&quot;).  Hopefully humans will read this important book, stop overbreeding purebreds, and give us boonie dogs good homes in exchange for the companionship and protection that we can provide so well	1997-07-21
US	53075760	R26JO06BDC1VBR	0786889233	621468659	Act of Betrayal	Books	5	4	7	N	N	More than just a banana typhoon	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Going into the final few chapters, Edna Buchanan's &quot;Act of Betrayal&quot; is a better-than-average mystery novel.  However, we were still skeptical at that point.  From reviews we had read, we knew that the climax of the book included a hurricane.  (&quot;Hurricane&quot; is the name that people living near the Atlantic Salt Lake have given to their typhoons.)<br />We have been through two typhoons here on Guam, and our noncanine animal companions of primate derivation have been through eight or nine.  Therefore, we did not expect a fictional account of a hurricane to create much suspense for us.  We assumed the climax of &quot;Act of Betrayal&quot; would be the literary equivalent of a banana typhoon, a low-level typhoon that knocks over banana trees but not much else.  Our assumptions were wrong.  Buchanan is a good enough writer to make her description of a hurricane exciting even for typhoon veterans like us	1997-07-13
US	53075760	R7GGTQB2NS4WR	0873642767	218711818	Hit Man: A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors	Books	4	10	21	N	N	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Homicide	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Rex Feral's &quot;Hit Man:  A Technical Manual for Independent Contractors&quot; has gained a certain amount of publicity and notoriety.  For the benefit of those who have been living deeper in the boonies than us, we would note that the book is a how-to manual for would-be hired killers.<br />This book contains a two-page section entitled &quot;Dealing With Man's Best Friend&quot;.  This section tells hit men how to dispose of an intended victim's watch or guard dog.  This one section is more obscene than the entirety of Marquis de Sade's &quot;120 Days of Sodom&quot;.  This section alone proves that, the name &quot;Rex Feral&quot; notwithstanding, the author of this book is a noncanine animal of primate derivation, and not one of us.  In our part of the world, people who want to sneak into a house find it easier to bribe us with canned meat, rather than kill us.<br />In view of the highly offensive, miscaninthropic section noted above, one may wonder why we gave this book a favorable rating.  There are three reasons.  First, notwithstanding the fact that Mr. Feral is not a professional writer, this book is better written than the average how-to or self-help book.  Second, if you frequently read mysteries or thrillers, like we do, it is interesting to read this book immediately before or after, say, the latest Joe Gore novel, and assess how realistic the novel is.  Third, we don't want to give Mr. Feral a low rating because we would not want to give him a reason to look us up if he ever visits Guam.<br />Finally, one cannot review this book without addressing the moral and legal issues it has raised.  Should this book be banned, or should it be protected by the First Amendment?  Of course, such questions do not apply to the section on dealing with dogs.  Until humans accord the freedom to bark the same respect as the freedoms of speech and press, we will not acknowledge that you have a freedom to write about ways to liquidate dogs.  However, as far as the remainder of Mr. Feral's book (those portions dealing with the termination of humans) is concerned, we believe it should be protected by the First Amendment.  Our reasons can best be explained with an analogy.<br />One of our noncanine animal companions of primate derivation is computer illiterate.  Whenever he wants to try anything with the computer that is more complicated than playing solitaire, he reads a book with a title such as &quot;Computers for Dummies&quot; or &quot;The Complete Idiot's Guide to Computers&quot;.  When he then tries to apply what he read, within minutes he has screwed the computer up so badly that he is screaming for our resident human puppy to come and fix it.<br />Mr. Feral's book is, in essence a &quot;for Dummies&quot; or &quot;Complete Idiot's&quot; guide to homicide.  While there may be rare but tragic exceptions, we do not think &quot;Hit Man&quot; will cause much harm.  Most likely if any of Mr. Feral's readers do try to implement his teachings, they will more often than not mess up just like the readers of dummies' guides to computers, auto repair, investment and sex.  Some things cannot be effectively learned from a book.  The chances of someone acquiring the skills of a professional assassin just from reading Mr. Feral's book are about equal to the chances of someone gaining the ability to throw or hit a 90 mile-per-hour fastball from reading an instructional book on baseball.  Therefore, while there are moral grounds for saying, &quot;Hush, Rex, hush!&quot;, the law should probably let him continue to growl	1997-07-05
US	53075760	R3UH5SH5XN8LXG	1882593189	470902331	Free Reign: A Suspense Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent novel about a stray human	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Normally we do not review books that do not have some sort of dog angle calling for a canine perspective in a review.  However, we enjoyed &quot;Free Reign&quot; so much that we could not pass up an opportunity to recommend it to other readers, canine and non-canine alike.<br />The hero of this novel, Ellis Portal, had been a respected judge.  However, he had episodes when he went rabid, with the result that he became a stray human, living in a boonie area in a wilderness preserve in Toronto.  He is nicer than most stray humans, as he usually eats plants and vegetables, and seldom competes with the likes of us for leftover meat in dumpsters.<br />One day Portal finds a detached human forepaw in his hidden garden, prompting him to try to solve a murder mystery.  While this plot sounds very similar to that in George Dawes Green's &quot;The Caveman's Valentine&quot;, &quot;Free Reign&quot; is not a rip-off.  Ellis Portal is the most interesting noncanine character we have come across in our reading so far this summer.  Although we liked (and highly recommend) &quot;The Caveman's Valentine&quot;, we like &quot;Free Reign&quot; even better.  Hopefully Portal will make his way back to the boonies for a sequel, and author Rosemary Aubert will give him a boonie dog next time around	1997-07-03
US	53075760	R24W2TVNWLO8L9	0393039269	436053846	Last Days of the Dog-Men: Stories	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A classic-to-be in the horror genre	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Human reviewers seem to have trouble placing the stories in Brad Watson's &quot;Last Days of the Dog-Men&quot; in the proper genre, describing these little gems as literary fiction.  To dogs, however, these stories belong in the horror genre.  In practically every story, a dog is murdered.  From a canine viewpoint, these stories are what we would expect from Edgar Allen Poe if he had decided to use dogs as victims in his stories.<br />Watson's treatment of his canine characters is surprisingly good for a human author.  Our only complaint is that he nonetheless spends more time developing his human characters.  While he handles them well, they are intrinsically less interesting than dogs.  Perhaps in his next collection, Watson will dispense with the noncanine animals of primate derivation and focus exclusively on dogs	1997-07-02
US	53075760	R2YX40IYED8FE0	0671884298	858707005	A Little Yellow Dog: An Easy Rawlins Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Miscaninthropic	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Reviewing this book poses an ethical dilemma for us.  How should a Jewish reviewer treat Shakespeare's &quot;The Merchant of Venice&quot;?  How should an African-American reviewer deal with Melville's &quot;Benito Cereno&quot;?  In this book, Mosley's normally admirable hero, Easy Rawlins, displays negative species-centric attitudes towards the title character, the little yellow dog.  Except for this problem, this is a typical well-written Easy Rawlins mystery.  The book is also redeemed somewhat by the fact that some of the characters have a more positive attitude than Rawlins towards the dog.  Still, human dog-lovers seeking a mystery novel might be better off reading a less miscaninthropic book, such as Frederick Busch's &quot;Girls&quot;	1997-06-29
US	53075760	R3T57K9YSIKBY	1563893150	887239526	Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Krypto the Superdog vs. the Kryptonite Man!!!	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  When DC Comics decided to erase about 50 years of continuity with the Crisis on Infinite Earths, it was decided to at least have some closure to the original Superman legend.  &quot;Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow&quot; reveals the final fate of the original, pre-Crisis Superman. . . . Of course, the highlight of this graphic novel is the return of Krypto the Superdog.  Just as we like to leave our yard every now and then to roam around Toto and chase cars, Krypto had left Earth to roam around the galaxy and chase flying saucers.  Krypto returns to aid Superman in the latter's greatest crisis.  In one particulary poignant moment in mid-story, when Superman needs to be alone with his best and most trusted friend to mourn the deaths of Pete Ross and others and contemplate the coming showdown with the remaining supervillians, the Man of Steel is shown in a full-page panel alone with Krypto, not Lois Lane or Jimmy Olsen.  During the final assault on Superman's Fortress of Solitude, the Kryptonite Man breaches the Fortress defenses and is searching for Superman to finish him off.  The day is saved by Krypto, who basically turns the Kryptonite Man into a large lump of green, glowing Alpo.  Alas, as a result, Krypto dies of kryptonite food poisoning.  We think this would have been a happier book if the roles had been reversed, and the noncanine superbeing of primate derivation had been the one to make the ultimate sacrifice, in order to save the dog.  Nonetheless, the Krypto-Kryptonite Man showdown is inspiring. . . .  This book does not reach the literary heights of Frank Miller's &quot;The Dark Knight Returns&quot;.  This is because the writer, Alan Moore, who did reach such heights in &quot;Watchmen&quot;, is in this case working within Silver Age conventions, rather than trying to stretch or shatter them.  This is a superb graphic novel given its purpose and self-imposed limits.  &quot;Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?&quot; is a must-have item for any serious comic collector, and for anyone who grew up reading Superman comics in the 1940's, '50's, '60's or '70's	1997-05-10
US	53075760	R2NMN92DRR5R38	0517595753	439982425	Dave Barry In Cyberspace	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A boonie dog salute to Dave Barry!	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  Dave Barry, who, coincidentally, is the author of &quot;Dave Barry in Cyberspace&quot;, once said that dogs &quot;spend the bulk of their free time circling around with other dogs to see which one can sniff the other the most times in the crotch.&quot;  This might cause one to suspect that we are writing this review in order to pan Mr. Barry's book in retaliation for that comment.  This is not the case.  The comment does not offend us because it is largely true, and, anyway, Mr. Barry says many similar things about his fellow humans. . . . We are actually reviewing this book because one of our reviews was named runner-up by Amazon.com in the April 1997 Book Reviews Contest.  The review that beat us out was a review of a computer book.  If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.  We decided to review a computer book, and this is the only one we can understand. . . . &quot;Dave Barry in Cyberspace&quot; is a very funny book.  Much of it had us LOL (dog-internetese for wagging our tails vigorously.)  Some parts of this book had us ROTFL (dog-internetese for gleefully rolling in something very smelly.)  However, one of Mr. Barry's predictions was sadly accurate in a way.  Writing in mid-1996, he predicted that, by the the time his book reached its readers, some of the web pages he described &quot;may have since gone out of existence for various reasons, such as that their creators were recalled to their home planets.&quot;  In addition, we were confused by a couple things elsewhere in the book.  Mr. Barry referred to the the Wicked Witch of the West holding Toto captive in a bicycle basket.  How could our village fit in a bicycle basket?  Also, Mr. Barry makes several unexplained references to Booger, who is a boonie dog here on Guam who lives a few miles south of us. . . . Those very minor reservations aside, this book was so much fun that we are willing to forgive and forget the author's earliercomment about crotch sniffing.  Mr. Barry, just to prove there are no hard feelings, Wolfie salutes you--with one of his hind legs	1997-05-02
US	53075760	R3L6ITRIX0J1HF	1563892855	607894875	The Big Book of Thugs: Tough as Nails True Tales of the World's Baddest Mobs, Gangs, and Ne'er do Wells! (Factoid Books)	Books	5	4	14	N	N	Caveat Emptor	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  &quot;The Big Book of Thugs&quot; contains vignettes by 57 different comic artists about notorious gangs and mobs.  We read this book because we heard there was a section about a gang called &quot;the Hounds&quot;.  It turned out that &quot;the Hounds&quot; was simply a name for a human gang.  However, dogs do play a role in some of the stories in this book.  A canine trained to snatch purses was an early member of the Crazy Butch Gang.  The &quot;emperor&quot; of the Highbinder Society used dogs as bodyguards.  We think these examples just show that there is no such thing as a bad dog.  There are only good dogs trained by bad humans. . . . The art in this book is outstanding.  The book is in black and white, but that is not a problem for relatively color blind animals like ourselves.  Another big plus is that, unlike two of the four other Paradox Press &quot;Big Books&quot; that our noncanine animal companion ordered on the net or by mail, &quot;The Big Book of Thugs&quot; was not missing several pages in the middle	1997-05-01
US	53075760	R3F40Q2OTINEWZ	0684822547	628567784	Exquisite Corpse: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Vertigo without the pictures.	This is another book review from Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  &quot;Exquisite Corpse&quot; is about two cannabalistic human serial killers.  We find it amazing that humans can complain about the culinary delicacies that we bring back from the jungle or a dumpster, but then go ahead and read something like this. . . . The book begins with one of the serial killers making a miraculous escape from a pound for rabid humans.  We won't give away how he does this, but the same trick was used by Dr. Miguelito Loveless on &quot;The Wild, Wild West&quot;.  We're pretty sure that the Joker, Dr. Doom, and others have made similar escapes.  The result of this comic-booky opening is to limit the reader's suspension of disbelief, so one never gets truly horrified like one does reading a Holocaust memoir or a well-done true crime book.  Instead, this book is like a prose version of a Vertigo, Warren or EC comic book. This is not necessarily bad, as it means the entertainment value outweighs the cringe factor most of the time.  If, like us, you liked Joe Lansdale's graphic novel &quot;Johan Hex:  Two-Gun Mojo&quot; or Garth Ennis's graphic novels &quot;Preacher:  Gone to Texas&quot; and &quot;Preacher:  Until the End of the World&quot;, you will probaby enjoy &quot;Exquitsite Corpse&quot;. Poppy Z. Brite's two serial killers, Andrew Compton and Jay Byrne, are not quite as compelling as Hannibal Lecter, but were still convincing enough that we would not raid their garbage	1997-04-22
US	53075760	R3NPNORKHI8OMT	0898156823	317471090	277 Secrets Your Dog Wants You to Know: A Doggie Bag of Unusual and Useful Information	Books	5	0	2	N	N	No more Humpy-Toy!	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  &quot;277 Secrets&quot; is the sort of book that justifies humanity's existence.  For example, the chapter entitled &quot;21 Spots Your Dog Loves to Have Scratched, Tickled, Touched, Petted, Rubbed or Massaged&quot; should replace the Ten Commandments as a guide to human conduct.       We do have a few reservations about this book.  It is the type of collection of lists and factoids that should be read just a chapter or two at a time, and not straight through.  Also, some of the information in &quot;277 Secrets&quot; is outdated.  In the chapter on &quot;15 Unusual Gifts You Can Buy Your Dog&quot;, one of the gifts is a Humpy-Toy.  It is described as &quot;a long, fluffy hot dog-shaped pillow&quot; for dogs who like &quot;to mount furniture and people's legs.&quot;  As Kansas is broken (what you humans euphemistically call &quot;fixed&quot;), we wrote to the address given in the book to order a Humpy-Toy for Wolfie.  Our letter was returned marked &quot;Forwarding Order Expired&quot;.  Hopefully Ms. Cooper and Mr. Noble will come out with a new, updated edition with a current address for Humpy-Toy orders.	1997-04-21
US	53075760	RSH2QC1IJ31T5	1556704100	758657583	Funny Dogs	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Too small, mistitled, but still a classic	This is another book review by Wolfie and Kansas, the boonie dogs from Toto, Guam.  &quot;Funny Dogs&quot; may be the best photography book we have ever seen.  The editor wisely used black-and-white pictures, for easier viewing by species that are somewhat color blind.  The photographs themselves are uniformly outstanding.       We have only two minor complaints about this book.  First, the title is misleading.  While many of the dogs who posed for this book display natural comedic ability, we found some of the pictures to be dignified rather than &quot;funny&quot;.  The pictures in this latter category would be &quot;funny&quot; only to some noncanine animals of primate derivation, not to a dog.  Actually, we found that most of the humans pictured in this volume, including Red Skelton and Alfred Hitchcock, look just as funny as the dogs they are pictured with.         Our other complaint is that this book is too small.  Usually we prefer compact volumes that we dogs can easily carry in our mouths.  However, the photos in this book are so wonderful that they should have been printed in a coffee table-sized edition.         In conclusion, the humans at Amazon.com should choose this masterwork as a Book of the Day in either the Classic or Undiscovered category.  Since they are only human, we are afraid they will probably name this a Wacky Book of the Day, but even that would bring this treasure to the attention of the wider audience it deserves.	1997-04-12
