US	53074803	ROYV3HGDFDYC0	0307262820	359898580	Incendiary	Books	3	5	11	N	N	weak three overall, though with some brilliant moments	Incendiary is in the form of a lengthy letter to Osama Bin Laden by the woman whose son and husband were recently killed in a major terrorist attack.  This sort of set-up often comes across as a bit forced or clumsy, and it does here as well at various points. The start for one, but one's resignations about the form are quickly set aside once the narrator, Petal, starts to recount the day of the actual attack--how she learned of it while having sex with neighbor, her attempts to get to the site, the physical and emotional aftermath once she arrives.  This and what comes right afterward holds the attention for a while, but as the book goes on, the clumsiness of the premise begins to feel more and more noticeable. <br />  Other problems start to arise as well.  For one, Petal's voice struck me as wildly inconsistent.  A lower-middle class women, at times she speaks in wonderfully true to life mode, capturing the bemusement, anger, sarcasm, self-doubt in just the right language and her sharp moments of grief pepper the book with brilliantly captured pain, but at other times the language comes across as more artificial, overly poetic, too ironically self-aware.  And, painfully, too didactic at times. <br />   The side-plots involving romance, class consciousness (too broadly done), and then her work with the police and what she finds out  there (too implausible) weaken the book, untethering it from the strongest points--a mother's grief and a city's response. <br />   The characters veer too often toward caricature, especially the upper class ones, or flatness, to overcome problems of plot and while Petal's grieving voice reminds us periodically of the book's potential, in the end it has traveled too far from its core strength.  Not a bad book, but a disappointing one.	2005-10-08
US	53074803	RQAUSEGA7O6WW	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	3	25	28	N	N	uneven and disappointing, funny at times	A Long Way Down starts with the sort of implausible premise--four strangers meet while attempting to commit suicide from the same rooftop--that will make some readers groan at the start.  But the premise isn't the problem here; it's what comes afterward. <br />  The opening scene that brings all the characters together is like the book itself a mixed bag.  It reads at various times extremely funny, forced, glib, and worst of all, dull.  The characters themselves come from all walks of life--class, geography, religion, family relationships, but their voices are surprisingly uniform in this first scene and for too long afterward.  They eventually do sharpen and wander away from each other, but it takes a while.  One's reaction to them will probably depend as much on the reader's background/personality as on Hornby's skill in character creation.  I didn't find much to like in any of them, which certainly colored my reaction to the novel--I simply didn't care enough about any of the characters to overlook some of its flaws. <br />   The structure was also problematic for me.  Long Way Down is told from all four viewpoints but so many of the sections were too short or too glibly self-aware, robbing them of depth or power.  Settling in for some longer time with each of them would have helped. <br />   The plot sort of meanders from one ludicrous scene to another--some of them working, some of them not so much--an appropriate method for these characters (as is the way the book refuses to wrap things up nice and neat) but one that also robs the book somewhat of the ability to move a reader. <br />   Overall, the book fell flat for me--the plot never compelled, the characters never formed a strong hold on me, the themes were too shallowly explored, and the structure was more of an obstacle than an enhancement.  It's funny in many places, readable in most, but it doesn't go much beyond that.	2005-10-08
US	53074803	R2UAVHIQV8TS01	067003407X	993755016	Marriage, a History: From Obedience to Intimacy, or How Love Conquered Marriage	Books	4	11	13	N	N	highly informative, readable, sometimes surprising	Fans of Coontz will remember the superb job she did in exploding many of the \\"Ozzie and Harriet\\" myths surrounding American life in the 50's. Here she greatly expands her focus in a work that is as strong in terms of its educational value if not quite as readable due to its much more epic subject. <br />  Here, rather than stick to a single decade, Coontz looks at marriage from its history-fogged origins (covering a range of speculations of how marriage evolved) to its present day incarnations.  She covers both time and space, crossing from continent to continent, culture to culture. <br /> Along the way, Coontz in clear and entertaining fashion shows how marriage has been in a state of constant flux, whether with regard to the role of economics, choice, love, or gender power.  She turns the abstract/scholarly more concrete by always coming back to an actual marriage--detailing the marriages of nobles and commoners through historical texts, letters, diaries, etc.  If there are more of the aristocracy, she at least acknowledges the problems with trying to extrapolate from such a small non-representative population. <br />  At times one wonders if the topic is too big; it suffers somewhat for that reason in comparison to The Way We Never Were mostly because it can't have that same laser focus.  Sometimes one feels she could do with fewer references to nobles/celebrities, could narrow the number of cultures discussed, but by the end the sheer preponderance of information, so nicely detailed, so well-organized, so clearly explained and placed in larger societal, chronological, and even personal contexts, outweighs any minor complaints.  A book well worth reading, especially nowadays as people toss around references to marriage's 2000 years of history, as if marriage had stayed the same for all 2000 years. Highly recommended. <br />	2005-09-20
US	53074803	R1NO1RB20VUQ8U	0765313871	329190161	Alector's Choice (Corean Chronicles, Book 4)	Books	2	16	19	N	N	not bad if read independently, repetitive for fans of series	There's no longer any doubt--Modesitt has fallen into the \\"shampoo\\" mode of series writing:  rinse-shampoo-repeat.  Alector's Choice, while not a bad book if read on its own (which it can be), is, for fans or former fans of Modesitt's other work merely a rehash of the same old same old. Same old plot. Same old characters. Same old conflicts.  Same old resolutions. Only the names have been changed to protect the profits (and a possible plagiarism suit if one could sue oneself).   <br />  Reading the above criticism, those who've followed the Corean series can predict what's coming here.  A good character of middling military rank is placed under an incompetent superior and given multiple impossible tasks.  Employing his still-developing \\"talent\\" and his tendency toward original and independent thought, the character manages to overcome said impossible tasks, though not without feeling guilt over the ease with which he learns to kill and not without angering his incompetent superiors.  While doing so, he will gradually rise in rank (end of book is coming--cue promotion), overhear snippets of conversations among his men marveling at his ability and his compassion, stoically continue his impossible task of the moment despite being badly wounded, and kill his opponents with a single \\"crack\\" of his rifle, despite the seemingly impossible distance between them.  He will also ride (a lot), order food (a lot), and tell his men to do a variety of strange yet effective things.   <br />  As with the previous three books, there are differences of specifics--this book is set in the far past, all the characters are new as is some of the geography--but no differences of character type, of plot, of structure, of resolution.  It's as if it came out of the old Hardy Boy/Nancy Drew/Tom Swift factory structure. If one comes to this book as the first entry into Modesitt's world, then it's moderately readable.  It moves along at a decent pace but becomes a bit repetitive within itself andlags a bit toward the latter third.  There is little sense of suspense with regard to one of the two main characters--Mykel, the military man described above--since his actions mostly repeat and his abilities are such that one never doubts the outcome of any of his situations.  A bit of complexity is added with a second main character, Colonel Dainyl, an Alector caught up in Alector politics linked to the rebellion Mykel is sent to put down.  But there is actually little of interest or depth to the Alector culture or background (with the exception of his conversation with one of the original Alectors whose sense of age and sorrow is one of the book's few shining moments) and the politics mostly involve Dainyl flying around musing on how little he understands. <br />  If I had come to this  book first, I'd probably rate it a solid three--readable but uninspiring, interesting but not compelling.  But being aware of what's come before means it gets downgraded to a two due to its cookie-cutter approach.  Not recommended for fans (who will be bored with the overly familiar elements) or for newbies (as the series peters out so badly).  If one wants to try Modesitt, turn to the Recluse books which, though by the end also become overly familiar, at least don't do so for a good number of books.	2005-09-05
US	53074803	R2CF1C1IYDHGLT	1400042011	983617132	An Unfinished Life	Books	3	10	13	N	N	solid novel that reads more like an average movie	An Unfinished Life is a decent read, not a great one.  In tone and plot and character, it reads a bit like a Plainsong shadow--similar story but more vague and with less of an impact.  Or one could say it reads more like a typical screenplay in that its characters are somewhat lacking in depth/history, much of the plot is easily predicted, and some of the scenes/characters seem created solely for their \\"quirkily cute\\" effect.  It's by no means a bad book, but it's more of a snack than a full meal. <br />  Jean Gilkyson left her hometown of Ishawooa, Iowa after the car accident that killed her husband Griffin (she was driving).  Her father-in-law, grizzled and gruff Einar,  has never forgiven her for \\"killing\\" his son and so she's never returned, moving from town to town and from abusive boyfriend to abusive boyfriend.  Having left her most recent one, Roy, Jean realizes she has no money and no place to go but \\"home\\", along with her very precocious nine-year-old daughter.  Einar of course isn't thrilled to see her, but the same isn't true of Einar's friend of 50 years, his Korean War buddy Mitch, whom Einar must now take care of since a grizzly bear attack that left Mitch badly wounded.  Added to the mix of characters is the small-town Sheriff Crane, the local cafe owner, and the grizzly bear. <br />  The story as mentioned is relatively predictable.  Two gruff old men, one long-held grudge against family, a cute and precocious nine-year-old girl.  Does anyone doubt where the story is going?  The same predictability mars the side plots involving Roy's attempt to chase down Jean and the Mitch and Einar's plans for the recently captured grizzly bear (who is \\"sad on the inside\\",  unlike Mitch who is \\"sad on the outside\\"). <br />  The predictability holds true with regard to the characterization as well; we've seen these people many times before:  the lonesome gruff old man with the heart of ice (easily melted), the good-hearted persistent small-town sheriff, and so on.And their lack of deep history doesn't serve the book well, especially with regard to the long-standing relationship between Mitch and Einar. We're plopped down into this tight bond without ever giving a real sense of where it came from. <br />  That said, despite its predictability of story and character, the book remains an enjoyable read, if conventionally so.  One wishes for more depth, more bite, fewer \\"cute\\" tricks, but it goes down quickly and easily.  I can see it working quite well as a movie, possibly because I go into movies with lower expectations.  Slightly recommended, though I'd give Spragg another chance on his next novel, hoping that he attempts more than he does here.	2005-08-27
US	53074803	R2PZD75BKEV8U1	1573223328	608984993	Across the Nightingale Floor (Tales of the Otori, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	excellent first book but series pales after this	The good news about Across the Nightingale Floor is that it is a wonderful fantasy novel set in an imaginative (as opposed to historical) feudal Japan. Its setting, sparse language, quick pace, relatively slim length, and lack of cookie-cutter fantasy races (dwarves, dragons, horse people, etc.) set it apart from much of the genre. <br />  Young Takeo, one of two main characters, lives with his family, sans father, in a quiet village.  They are all \\"Hidden\\", members of a persecuted early Christianity and the book starts out at a full dark pace as the village is quickly overrun by a local warlord Iida, with Takeo the only survivor.  Rescued seemingly through random luck by Otori Shigeru, another warlord who holds Iida his enemy, Takeo follows Shigeru to his far-off home where he becomes his ward and is educated in the way of the upper class and the warrior.  It also becomes clear as he ages that he has somehow inherited some of the skills of the Tribe, a secret group of assassins who can go invisible for short periods of time, put people to sleep, hear sounds from far off, and so on.  As his unknown past becomes unraveled, Takeo becomes increasingly embroiled in the area's current political and social upheavals and finds himself conflicted within as well, torn by the obligations of family, religion, duty, class, and love to name just a few.   <br />  The book shifts between Takeo and Kaede, the other main character--a young beautiful girl held hostage in Iida's castle.  Kaede resists being used as a pawn in the world of men and must fight her own battles (sometimes literally).  Eventually, as one expects, Takeo and Kaede's paths merge and a love story develops. <br />   As mentioned, the story is fast-paced and the language sparse, making for a quick read.  The language is beautiful in many places and its style and tone are perfect for the setting.  The minimal style isn't quite so positive at times with regard to plot, as sometimes things skim by a bit too quickly,such as Takeo's training which turns him seemingly overnight (a slight exaggeration) into an amazingly effective assassin.  And sometimes the world creation seems a bit thin. Despite the book's brevity, the characterization is mostly well-done--the two  main characters have a sense of fullness to them and the side characters, if anything, are even better. <br />  The style, language, setting, plot, and characters are all above average and combine to create an excellent first book in the series. The only complaint is that it is by far the best book in the series.  Luckily, it doesn't rely on a cliffhanger ending so one can read it on its own with a sense of resolution.  Strongly recommended, with fair warning that books two and three suffer greatly in comparison, being nowhere near as interesting, slower paced, a bit repetitive, and overall lacking the spark of the first.	2005-08-26
US	53074803	R2TFIGQ5IERQE7	038551428X	970964974	The Traveler (Fourth Realm Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	8	13	N	N	reads like a bad movie, glimmer of potential at end	The Traveler, despite its hype, has not done very well and the biggest reason is probably quite simple--it isn't all that good.  Its basic premise centers on a triad of secret societies:  the Travelers who can send their Light out to other realms and then return to allegedly change the world with their new perspectives (think Jesus, Buddha, etc.), the Harlequins who spend their lives learning the art of combat to protect the Travelers down the centuries, and the Tabula/Bretheren (depending on which side you're on the name changes), a group trying to maintain world domination and Order by killing of those pesky Travelers and putting everyone under surveillance via the Vast Machine/Grid.  Supposedly, thanks to modern technology the Brethren have just about won, wiping out all the Travelers and almost all the Harlequins.  But of course, if that were true it wouldn't be much of a story. <br />  Enter Maya, the daughter of one of the most famed Harlequins, who is tasked by her father to protect two newly discovered potential Travelers, a task Maya refuses as she left the Harlequins years ago to live a \\"normal\\" life.  But when her father is killed and she becomes targeted as well, she takes the job on, helped along by a few other Harlequins, a martial-arts instructor, a member of the Church of Jones (Jones was a former Traveler).  Opposing her is the allegedly massive power of the Tabula, with surveillance and assassins everywhere but especially in their scientific fortress where they hope to harness the power of the new-found Travelers. The Travelers themselves, meanwhile, Michael and Gabriel, are split and go their separate ways with regard to their views toward the two sides and their attempts to learn how to Travel. <br />  The most glaring problem with the book, and there are many, is that the Tabula, which is concocted to be some sort of incredibly powerfully omniscient presence that can track anyone anywhere is competent only when the plot needs them to be. At other times they play like the Keystone Cops (a group of massive incompetents for young people reading this).  For instance, they manage to track Maya and use her to lead them to her father, and when she leaves and one of the villains suggests going in immediately he's told no, she may come back in five minutes (Harlequins \\"cultivate randomness). So they wait, she leaves, they come in and kill her father (no real spoiler here--this is set up all along for the reader to anticipate), then when she comes back half-an-hour later (if that) nobody's there to greet her.  They stake out houses and yards by pretending to be repair people, but no one ever thinks to check a backyard.  They break into houses to leave \\"tracer beads\\" on people's clothing, but don't think to leave a bug or video camera behind.  They control literally a million cameras in the world, but people can just wander around their sealed Fortress of Solitude while the bad guys search for them fruitlessly.  They have sophisticated worldwide constant internet tapping but a major character can spend months and  years using the internet for research, employing all the \\"targeted\\" words, and remain undiscovered.  They leave animals (genetically designed but still brute animals) behind to kill people without a single human around to make sure the job is done. And these are just a few examples.  The good guys don't fare much better, such as the character who is running for his life in a car that he knows, knows can be and regularly is tracked via GPS by the group he's running from.  Bus or taxi anyone? <br />   There are so many of these major lapses that they would overwhelm even a good story.  But the story itself tends toward the predictable, trite, and muddled. The backstory of the Harlequins et. al is never really laid out, never really feels fully thought out. For instance, Peter's denial of Jesus is allegedly the reason Harlequins must guard all Travelers with their lives forever since Peter was a Harlequin (notthe first, merely the first one recorded in a historical document).  Which of course begs the question--why was Peter guarding Jesus in the first place and why were all the past Harlequins guarding all the past Travelers?  We're told the Travelers have this incredible effect on the world via examples given of Jesus, Buddha and others, but we never really see it nor get a sense of it being real within the context of the Traveler.  Michael and Gabriel's father was a Traveler and what we see of him is far from impressive.  The same is true of the Pathfinders, those who can't Travel but can teach Travelers to do so.  Why the extra layer?  Seemingly so we can have another secret society and yet another word that is constantly capitalized throughout the book, in addition to Travel, Harlequin, Light, and so on. <br />  The specific plot movement has a decent pace to it but is marred by coincidence, implausibility, and sheer manipulation for effect (as in whether the bad guys will be competent or not). <br />  The characters have little depth to them. One of the brothers is a real-estate guy who drives a Mercedes. The other one is a motorcycle-riding messenger whose best friend is a 60-yr-old attorney.  I'll leave it to you to deduce which one turns toward the Tabula side of things.  The speech is seldom realistic and far too many characters do just plain old dumb things. <br />   The Traveling feels like a muddled mishmash of eastern philosophy and bad science fiction through the training stages and the \\"barriers\\" that must be crossed to lead into the other realms (there is little suspense with regard to the barriers).  The realms themselves have some potential, the first glimmer of some spark in the book, but the potential remains unmet so far and these too are marred by coincidence and some new age-ish description. <br />   Is there anything to like here?  As mentioned, the pace is quick. The book is readable. The realms have some potential for further interest in the next book. But these strengths are merely average at best and are far overwhelmed by the books flaws of plotting, characterization, and style (such as long monologues of exposition), which exist in far greater number than just those few enumerated here.  Not recommended.	2005-08-22
US	53074803	R2PG5M72QPRK89	0451459946	744709711	Shadowfall (The Godslayer Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	18	22	N	N	has it problems but an engrossing read	Shadowfall is the start of yet another fantasy series and much of it will sound familiar to fans of the genre.  There is a military order of skilled knights with a secret sect, a pantheon of gods, not one but two special swords (not to mention a special dagger), lots of folks with hidden origins, a small band fighting against overwhelming odds, and a quest to undertake to save the world. <br />  Despite the oh-so-familiar trappings, however, and despite some flaws of execution, Clemens injects enough originality into the work that it transcends the cliches and becomes an engrossing read. <br />   Shadowfall is set in the Nine Lands, lands kept in peace by  gods who \\"settled\\", tying themselves to a particular area of land and allowing their \\"graces\\" (bodily fluids collected by human \\"Hands\\"--and yes, they collect all the fluids) to be used to alchemical effect. The first God to settle was Chrism, 4000 years ago.  Now there are 100 settled gods and uncounted \\"rogue\\" gods who ply the hinterlands growing more mad. <br />   The story starts off strong, with Tylar,a \\"fallen\\" and broken-bodied Shadownight, witness to the slaying of one of the 100 gods whose dying act is to heal him, fill him with a god's Grace, and lay a guardian within him so he may quest for \\"Rivernscyr\\", though he has no idea what that is.  Arrested for being a godslayer, he must escape imprisonment and then pursuit to find his destiny, joined by Rogger--a mysterious thief, and Delia--one of the murdered god's Hands.  He soon picks up other allies, including a Shadowknight thought dead 300 years ago  and perhaps a few gods, though their allegiance is unclear. <br />  Meanwhile, two other stories unfold simultaneously. One involves Tylar's ex-wife (she testified against him years ago in the trial that led to his being cast out of the order) and former compatriots back in the citadel of the Shadowknights.  Their former leader has just died mysteriously, there are rumors of an evil sect within the order, and hints of growing danger to the world at large.  Tylar's ex Katherine and others try to get to the bottom of things as the citadel prepares a trap for Tylar, who is rumored to be heading back \\"home\\". <br />  The second story centers on a young girl named Dart, in training to perhaps be selected as a Hand.  We meet her first as your typical orphan outcast among the richer girls--mocked, tormented, bullied.  Her only friend is Pup, a fearsome creature invisible to all but her and who only manifests himself when bloodied and who comes to her fierce defense when she is threatened.  Eventually Dart is chosen, along with her worst tormentor, as Hand to Chrism, the eldest god, and heads off to the god's home.  Rather than safety in the god's bosom, however, Dart finds murder, suspicion, and betrayal, though she can't tell the good guys from the bad guys.   <br />  Eventually, as one would expect, the three strands of story intertwine and all the major characters are brought together. <br />   The plot is complex and interesting enough to hold one's attention throughout and Clemens does a good  job of using the shifting points of view from one storyline to another to increase suspense and tension.  He also does a good job of withholding information so that one is never quite sure which side is good or bad or who is on which side until near the very end.  Even then, when the villains have been revealed as villains, there are still some questions. <br />  While some of the elements are utterly familiar, as mentioned there's enough originality there (especially the parts with regard to the Gods and the bodily graces) so they don't seem cookie-cutter.  Dart is probably the strongest character despite her youth and her story tends to be the most compelling of the three due to  her strength of characterization. <br />   Tylar unfortunately is a bit weak of a character, seeming a bit undeveloped and passive through much of the story, though his characterization is much sharper and more vivid in the latter third or so.  Other characters and elements also seem to lack some development, whether it be specific characters such as Rogger or the Raven Knight or whole pieces of background, such as the Shadowknight order or the use/manner of the Gods.  And there is far too much exposition put into the mouths of characters, especially at the end where it reads almost like a history lecture.  And unfortunately Clemens falls prey to the villain's dreaded monologue--the far too tired method of having a villain explain everything just before he's about to kill the hero (have these people never seen what happens to the villains that do this?) <br />  The book comes to a resolution of battle but not of war and so offers the dual delight of a completed tale and suspense as to what happens next, as the war of Gods and Men (with factions from both on each side) is truly declared.  Recommended with pleasure. <br />	2005-08-20
US	53074803	RIN3F3GDTIQP1	1596921161	642583994	The Great Inland Sea	Books	3	2	4	N	N	potential not met due to flat tone and pace	The Great Inland Sea has a strong story in it--a slow coming of age and awareness, a stark childhood setting, a fiery (literally) dream girl, a dead mother who haunts the main characters thoughts and a living father who does the same, a return \\"home\\" to see if it can indeed become that.  But the novel never met its promise I thought, especially after its strong beginning when 12-yr-old Darwin observes his mother, trussed and gagged to her bed, just before her death. <br />  Darwin ends up running all the way from his home in the Australian desert to America, escorting a horse named Unusual to a Maryland farm where he ends up taking a job breaking horses. There he meets Callie whose outsized personality and ambition (she's known to start fires, she wants to be the first female jockey, she tours the near country running betting horseshows) immediately sucks him in, for good and bad.  Their rocky relationship continues for a while then seemingly ends, at which point Darwin heads back home and begins to explore both a new relationship with his father and his own past, especially with regards to his mother--her youth, her strange marriage to his father, her relationship with their single farmhand (long gone), and her mysterious death.  Soon though Callie invites him to a horse show in Mexico and when he returns home it will be with Callie and the long-gone farmhand as past and present collide and answers start to fall. <br />   As mentioned, the book starts strongly but its flat-voiced narration and tempo, which I granted him early on as in accord with Darwin's shock and grief, never altered and eventually grew wearisome, dragging the energy of the book down.  The sparseness of language has its poetic moments, there are some beautiful lines here, but the unvarying style, like the voice and tempo, also grew wearisome.  The same was true of the characters themselves, who all fit into the same type and voicing.  These stylistic decisions led to too great a distancing between the characters and myself and I found myself caring less and less what happened to them.   Though I finished the book, by the end I was hoping for someone to show up in person on the farm or as part of the many flashbacks, that would break the patterns of behavior, voice, and mood.  Someone to add a dash of color or a bit of loquaciousness or visible passion not marred as Callie's was with self-destructiveness or dark childhood secrets. <br />   It isn't that the book was too quiet, it was too monotone in its silence.  I'd try a second book by Francis as the prose was often quite strong, but this one I can't quite recommend.	2005-08-18
US	53074803	R2L7L19MOKDFW9	0441012809	140404020	The House of Storms (Light Ages)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	somewhat weak 4 due to weaker second half	The House of Storms takes place roughly a century or so and in the same world as MacLeod's The Light Ages.  Though it could therefore be called a sequel, one needn't have read The Light Ages to jump into House of Storms, as the characters and the culture aren't quite the same.  House of Storms is not as strong as the first book, though like Light Ages it has fully developed vivid characters; a slow, methodical pace; a complex plot, a balanced look at the \\"good\\" and \\"bad\\" guys; and lush, poetic language.  It didn't, however, maintain these strengths quite as consistently as Light Ages did, creating I thought a noticeable flagging in the second half of the book. <br />  The novel is set in a sort of late-Victorian era England where magic (in the form of aether) and technology work side by side.  England is controlled by a small group of guilds, the most dominant one of which is the Telegraphers' Guild.  Alice Meynell is the current Greatgrandmistress of the Guild, a position she's achieved despite her low background through using sex (her husband is the Grandmaster), magic (she's a darkly proficient adept of aether), and the not-so-infrequent murder.  At the book's start, neither her magic nor social position however can do anything to save her consumptive son Ralph, who stands to inherit control of the Guild.  To save him she makes a bargain with a group of Changed (names so for the effect of a too-great exposure to magical aether).  With his recovery she returns to plotting Ralph's (and thus her) rise to power, along with increasing the fortunes of the Telegraphers' Guild, refusing to be deterred by Ralph's love for a common \\"shoregirl\\" named Marion Price or his increasing interest in natural science and his burgeoning theory of evolution. <br />   The first half of the book deals with these plot points and more, while the second half swerves into a civil war between England's East and West (partly economic, partly over slavery, along with other reasons--including some directly tied to Alice).  In the war, Ralph as head of his Guild becomes a general while Marion turns into the Florence Nightingale of the other side.  Armies march, society is turned over, the countryside razed, all while Alice continues to plot and manipulate and Ralph and Marion move closer and closer to a reconnection. <br />   As mentioned, I thought the book's first half stronger than its second. The war sections seemed more diffuse and disjointed, less solidly set up and fleshed out. New characters were introduced, but not as successfully.  And the ending seemed somewhat anticlimactic.  That said, though Storms didn't match the brilliance of Light Ages (a tough task anyway), there's quite a lot to like here, beginning with the list of shared strengths listed in the first paragraph of this review.  And the book is almost worth reading for Alice herself, a character you almost can't help reveling in despite (or perhaps because of) her murderous single-minded drive.  Recommended therefore for Alice, along with its many other strengths of character and prose, though with a wisp of disappointment.	2005-08-18
US	53074803	R25LQRSZGYARTA	1585674028	787049495	The Spartans	Books	3	5	5	N	N	lots of detail but to mixed effect	The Spartans is, as one would guess by the title, a general overview of that culture.  In some sense, though, it's really three different ones.  The book is at once a series of mini-biographies of important Spartans, a \\"normal\\" chronological look at Spartan history, and a set of in-depth mini-essays on various aspects of Spartan culture.  As such, its success varies within these sections as well as overall. <br />  My personal favorite, and the facet I found most successful was the mini-essay format devoted to Spartan culture, including discussions of the role of women, the upbringing of male children, and so on.  These sections were concise, detailed, vividly written, and had a strong sense of focus and an enjoyable narrative voice. <br />  The mini-biographies were uneven, with some displaying the same strengths listed above while others were more disjointed, lacking a sense of context and seeming more a string of details not connected to a larger picture. <br />  The chronological  history also felt disjointed (perhaps because of the triad sort of format), leaving me not with a sweeping cohesive sense of history but more with a sense of pockets of information. <br />   The flaws with regard to the bios and the chronological started to add up past the second half of the book so reading sort of flagged.  It also seemed, though I could be wrong, that there were fewer of the mini-essays on culture that had made the first half so enjoyable and informative. <br />  In the end, I found it difficult to finish and did so more to finish it then because I was compelled by the history or the style.  I came out of the reading more informed, especially from its first half, but disappointed that the essays' strengths didn't translate to the rest of the book.	2005-08-18
US	53074803	R2MNVYOL8L5BL4	0674015703	581083813	After the Ice: A Global Human History 20,000-5000 BC	Books	5	17	18	N	N	excellent readable overview	You have to give credit to a book that promises in its title to cover 15, 000 years and to do so globally and then delivers on its promise.  After the Ice does just that.  Skipping from continent to continent, archaeological site to archaeological  site,  time period to time period, Mithen presents the reader with an eminently readable, understandable overview of human prehistory from the end of the last great ice age to just before the start of the large civilizations.    Mithen offers as a guide a fictional guide named after John Lubbock, an English scientist and author of a 19th century history of the Paleolithic/Neolithic eras (terms he coined himself).  This version of Lubbock joins in with his human ancestors as they build shelters, hunt, harvest, etc.  While this may seem a bit too gimmicky, it mostly works, only falling into the overly cute on rare occasion.  Through Lubbock we get a much more full sense of life in those times, \\"sense\\" in the literal meaning of the word as well as we see interior decorations, smell human refuse, taste pre-domesticated grains, and so on.  Mithen is always aboveboard on what is speculation and what is not as he moves from these narrative descriptions to the more academic \\"fact-based\\" descriptions of the excavations that were their sources.     Mithen does an excellent job of conveying what the sites reveal in sharp yet concise details, as well as what it's like to actually work such a site.  This is no dry recitation of numbers.  From a few specific digs he generalizes outward to larger discussion of human development at the time.  And though the book is sectioned by continent and within those sections by time period, he is always careful to place new discussions in the context of what the reader has already read, so the details rather than simply piling up mesh neatly into a more comprehensive whole.  With his use of Lubbock, he's also able to show us how our views toward prehistory have changed in the past hundred plus years and why.    The book is quite up to date, discussing finds from the 90's as well as the use of the most modern technology, so one is never left with the nagging feeling (as happens sometimes with other science popularizations) of \\"yeah, but is this still true based on what they've found lately?\\"    Mithen also covers the more controversial debates fairly, presenting all views and only sometimes taking sides, and even in those cases doing so modestly.    It's hard to imagine a better job being done of this.  The book moves along at a good pace, knows when to stop, meshes narrative and fact seamlessly, clearly and concisely explains the material, makes the topic and the means of discovering the topic not just interesting but exciting.  Strongly recommended for anyone with an interest in the area.	2005-08-16
US	53074803	R3THZ1EYIAY130	1585675601	473100658	The Warrior Prophet (The Prince of Nothing, Book 2)	Books	3	17	23	N	N	strong three, improves on first though a few flaws	The Warrior Prophet picks up from The Prince of Nothing (which must be read first) and mostly improves on that first book, which in itself was a solid read.  Where Prince of Nothing suffered from lengthy exposition, now that the basic storyline and world  have been set, Baakker can focus on moving things along more quickly, if that can be said about a 600 plus page book.  Though the book could be cut by a hundred plus pages, that's a critique that can be made about almost any recent fantasy (heavy sigh) and so can be relegated to the minor \\"I've grown resigned to this\\" sort of thing.  Despite some padding, the book moves along fluidly and at a good pace for the most part, with only a few lagging areas.  Part of the reason for the better pace is that while in book one the Holy War (with clear connections to the Crusades) has to be laboriously prepared, here the War is literally on the march, so while there are still scenes dealing with politics, religion, philosophy, and other non-battle elements, because the army can't just camp out for months on end to deal with these things, Bakker has to settle them quickly or on the run.  This self-limiting facet of the plot therefore helps quite a bit.  The battles themselves are well-done, though I confess I tend to glaze over such things a bit the second or third time around. <br /> The book also improves on Prince of Nothing in that there is left shifting among multiple characters and setting. This was less a problem of complexity than of emotional impact in book one--the constant shifting among so many characters diluted any single character's impact--so while Prophet may be equally complex in plot, the reader cares more about how that plot affects the characters thanks to the  welcome sharpening of focus.  Characters from book one aren't simply dropped; we just don't spend as much time with some of them. <br />  The ones we do spend time with vary in their degree of interest and depth. As in book one, the most compelling character remains the sorcerer Achamian as we see him wrestle with a variety of issues, among them:  his nightly dreams of the first apocalypse, his fear that Kellhus is the harbinger of the second one conflicting with his hope that perhaps Kellhus is more, his love for the whore Esmenet, his tattered relationships with former pupils who consider him a blasphemer. These don't even include his time being tortured or his attempts to track down the \\"skin-spies\\" of the Consult.  The story is always strongest when it focuses on Achamian, and luckily it does so for most of it. <br />  Unfortunately, however, that means that it does move away from him and it is in these moments that the book tend to lag a bit. None of the other characters are of as much interest.  Kellhus, who is the second point of major focus, lacks the depth and conflict of Achamian.  He is portrayed as just too good at everything.  We're constantly told that when Achamian teaches him math, Kellhus stuns him with how he goes beyond the historical math geniuses.  Then we're told the same with regard to philosophy. And then . . .  And then . . .   I kept waiting for someone to comment on how he cooked the best goat and mended breeches best and so on.  Not only was this sort of thing repetitive, but it robbed Kellhus of a sense of humanity (needed even if characters aren't necessarily human) as well as robbing the book of some suspense as one never doubts that Kellhus will achieve what  he sets out to.  There are a few moments of internal conflict but they are grossly outweighed. <br />  The women characters don't particularly stand out, nor do the other noble characters.  Cnaur is mostly a one-note character who doesn't grow all that much.  Other characters flash some potential, such as the leader of the Spires (a rival school of magic to Achamian's) but are usually cut away from too quickly. <br />   Finally, Bakker needed to reset some of his character inter-relations and develop them a bit more here assome major plot movement of the latter half of the book revolves around those relationships--ones we haven't seen for about 500 or so pages back to the previous book. <br />   Despite these flaws, Prophet is an enjoyable read. As mentioned, the plot moves quickly and at a good pace despite its 600 pages and the philosophical discussions, rather than slow the pace, complement the more militaristic \\"action\\" scenes nicely.  In fact, I'd go so far as to say they were my favorite parts, making Prophet not simply enjoyable but thoughtful as well, something that can be said all too rarely about much recent fantasy.  While I still wouldn't rank it at the top or in line with Erikson's Malazan series of Martin's soon to be completed trilogy, it is different enough and intelligent enough to recommend strongly if not wildly enthusiastically.  Though if book three improves as much on Prophet as Prophet did on book two, that may change.	2005-08-16
US	53074803	RNCRUXBVPAVTA	0439656230	713504375	The Underland Chronicles #3: Gregor and the Curse of the Warmbloods	Books	4	11	13	N	N	continues in the series' strong fashion	The third book in the Gregor series picks up shortly after the last one ends and quickly tosses the reader into familiar territory.  Once again, Gregor takes up a task underground in order to save a family member.  In the first book it was his father, in book two his sister Boots, and now it's his mother, who in accompanying him down to the underground contracted a seemingly fatal disease that threatens to wipe out the warmbloods. <br />  As foretold by a prophecy (another familiar element from the other books), Gregor joins a group made up of rats, crawlers, humans, and bats who have put aside (somewhat) their hatred for each other to seek the cure to this plague that strikes them all.  The quest will take them deep into a dangerous forest, the only place where the plant that supposedly holds the cure grows. <br /> The strengths of book three are the same as the earlier books. The story moves along smoothly at a quick pace with almost no lagging moments.  The main characters continue to grow in complexity, maturing with age and experience as well as revealing previously concealed aspects of personality and experience.  The new characters obviously don't have the same depth, but are also fully drawn as Collins manages to avoid the flatness of character that mars so many other young adult fantasy books, even those that are three times the length and so should have time for more complex characters. <br />   The setting remains somewhat too vague for my liking; as in books one and two I wish Collins had sacrificed a little speed of story for a more vivid sense of place. The plotting in this one is not quite as strong as in the others--a bit more straightforward (though with a nice darkly cynical twist at the end) and containing a few scenes that seem a bit sketchy, not quite fully thought out or drawn out.  As in previous books, death is not simply an insincere threat hanging over a quest where you know all will survive.  Characters die in this book as they have in others and though Collins in my mind glosses over one a bit too easily, others have more impact, some surprisingly so.   <br />  The end of the underground section seems a bit abrupt, but as is usual, Collins doesn't neatly tie things off in a happy bow.  Some questions from book two have been answered, others have not.  Some characters have survived but not untouched (Gregor's father, for instance, has still not fully recovered from the events of book one, a welcome  bit of realistic shading). And new questions and problems have arisen. There is at least one more book to come obviously, but there is no sense of padding an over-worked story.  The characters and problems remain interesting and in some cases have grown more so.  Strongly recommended for older young readers.  Younger readers won't have a problem with following plot, but may be truly frightened by an early vivid scene involving rats in the walls and also  may be upset by the deaths that take place.	2005-08-05
US	53074803	R38OC6HLR934UT	0375423508	755158673	The Lake, the River & the Other Lake: A Novel	Books	3	11	17	N	N	upper three:  enjoyable, easy read	The Lake the River and the Other Lake is a relatively strong first novel that, although it doesn't set you on fire, pulls along its many narrative strands pretty effortlessly and enjoyably. Set in a fictional lake resort in northern Michigan, the novel divides itself into relating several conflicts mostly involving middle-class locals and richer summer folk: Roger Drinkwater, a local native (and 7/8ths Native American) versus the summer jet skiers polluting \\"his\\" lake; a pair of neighbors (one local, one \\"summer\\") involved in a legal dispute over the clearing of some trees; a sixteen-year-old local whose seemingly ideal nympho summer girlfriend turns out perhaps not so ideal; a local deputy passed over for sheriff walking a thin line of insubordination with her outsider boss; an orchard owner trying to come to terms with the love lives of his grown children, each of whom is involved with lovers who are more outsiders than the summer folk; and a recently widowed minister in conflict with himself, a conflict sparked by the near-constant presence of a young teen girl hired to tutor him in computer usage. There are a few other sideline stories but this gives an idea of the ground Amick covers. <br />   On the one hand, the ground covered does a nice job of conveying a full sense of place, a sense furthered by Amick's natural dialogue and strong physical detail.  On the other hand, there are so many stories that are in some ways so similar that they threaten to bleed one into the other, leaving them a bit flat.  At times as well, the stories seem a bit too neatly set up--the local vs. outsider angle repeated again and again; the owner with not one international marrying into the family but two; and so on.  And they are all handled in much the same tone, a sort of breezy, cheery voice that carries the reader along utterly smoothly, even in places where the subject matter gets a bit darker.  Even though I enjoyed the smooth ride, I found myself wishing now and then for a bit more turbulence, a bit more bite or edge to the tone and narrative.  The strongest story involves the minister, partially because it's the most internal, partially because it has the potential for the most darkness, but it never really sharpens its edges on the reader's conscience.  The other stories resolve themselves a bit too neatly, a bit too quickly cheerily.  Maybe if there had been one or two fewer story lines, some of those could have been dragged out a bit more, conveying more of a sense of a difficult journey toward resolution.  One story especially, involving a dot-com millionaire huddled in his newly built palace trying to weather the economic storm battering his finances, seems especially tangential and could easily have been dropped at little loss to the book as a whole. <br />  Even if it doesn't quite meet its potential, however, Lake as mentioned is a wholly enjoyable read, with only a few lagging moments, some gentle humor, strong dialogue, and a full set of mostly full-blooded characters interacting in interesting, if not compelling, ways.  Recommended though I look forward more to Amick's second novel.	2005-08-01
US	53074803	R3I6VFOBX9ZE26	0152049118	408310979	A Wizard Alone: The Sixth Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	4	3	3	N	N	continues the series' quality level	A Wizard Alone is  yet another Young Wizards book that maintains the high level set  by the first few in the series.  While not quite as dark as the previous one, where (and if you haven't read Wizard's Dilemma than quit reading this review if you don't want the end spoiled) Nita' s mother dies, A Wizard Alone maintains a level of solemnity appropriate to what has come just before.  The title could refer to any of the three major characters.  Nita, who is combating depression and lethargy after her mother's death, all while trying to understand the strange images and attempts at communication coming to her via dreams.  Kit, who given the mission of finding out what happened to a young autistic wizard seemingly stuck in his \\"Ordeal\\", enters the strange landscape of the autistic's mind and risks being trapped there.  Or Darryl, the autistic wizard, who battles the Lone One thinking he is alone in doing so, all within the confines of his mind. <br />  As is typical of this series, the book covers a gamut of subject, tone, style, and philosophy.  Autism is presented in clear (if somewhat speculative) fashion, as is Nita's depression.  There are many moments of humor to lighten the mood, mostly in this case involving Kit's attempts to reconcile his family's TV, DVD player, and remote control. And there are thoughtful moments of quiet philosophy.  And as usual, the characters act in realistic fashion, despite the sci fi/fantasy genre.   The only real flaw is that some of the story is telegraphed pretty early, but the story itself is so readable, the images so interesting, the characters so familiar that one doesn't mind much some predictability.  Strongly recommended as is the series as a whole.	2005-07-27
US	53074803	R33G9BY20CIORG	0152024603	766839073	The Wizard's Dilemma  (Young Wizard's Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	one of the stronger in a strong series	Wizard's Dilemma continues the story of Nita and Kit, young wizards at work.  If you haven't read the others, you should.  Though one could get through this and the others without prior knowledge, lack of background knowledge robs the reader of the full impact of the story.  Dilemma is a darker, more personal book than the previous ones, which is made quickly clear when Nita's mother is diagnosed with cancer.  As one might expect, Nita turns to wizardry for a solution (as does Dairine).  And as one might expect from Duane's nuanced and depth-ridden series, the solution is nowhere so easy.  While Nita learns more about the necessary skills and knowledge via test runs in various \\"practice universes\\", Kit is off in his own universe, literally. Or, to be more precise at the start, his dog's universe (filled with thousands of squirrels to chase).  While Kit's storyline is interesting in its own right, and lightens the darkness periodically, it is Nita's plotline that drives the story and it does so in compelling fashion.  These characters have deepened over the series and that depth comes into full play in this book. Along with the illness plot (which is never played for melodrama), Nita and Kit are going through a period of awkward estrangement as each tries to feel their way through their partnership while they and their personal worlds are changing.  Despite the magical background, the characters' reactions, their emotional interplay, their dialogue, all ring strongly true to reality.  The ending is movingly effective, as is the book as a whole.  As mentioned above, this whole series is quite strong and this is one of the better books in the series.  Strongly recommended.	2005-07-27
US	53074803	R3O4QUQYKXPMNQ	0765313472	846068019	The Hidden Family: Book Two of Merchant Princes	Books	3	18	19	N	N	entertaining but average read	The Hidden Family picks up at the end of The Family Trade and continues that story's basic premise, in both good and bad fashion.  In the good, the story remains fast-paced, a quick and entertaining if not too deep read.  Stross introduces us to another world here, one that lies somewhere  between our own and the Clan's both technically and socially, opening new and more interesting settings. Miriam remains an active, strong character, joined by others equally strong.  Questions from book one are answered while new ones are raised.  And as he did in book one with regard to the medieval setting, Stross continues to capture the gritty reality of non-modern times, unlike many fantasy authors, though at times he does so too obviously, as when he has one of his characters shrilly make that point in a lengthy paragraph. <br />  On the bad, the story continues to be bedeviled by jargon.  Miriam still is too accomplished, too pre-set in convenient fashion to take over the situations.  The characters still lack some depth and the romance, as it was in book one, reads as if Stross can't decide if he wants it realistic or as parody.  And some of the questions answered seem a bit too pat or contrived.  The book does come to some resolution at the end though it also obviously leaves room for more. <br />  If the first book was mildly recommended, this one is as well, perhaps less so as one would hope for some improvements between one and two.  The addition of the second world does add interest, however, so recommended it is, if not with a lot of excitement.	2005-07-18
US	53074803	R2MHOK3KTR9D0U	0765309297	313250816	The Family Trade (Merchant Princes)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	lots of backstory but promising start	The Family Trade is a relatively slim introduction to a large concept series--the idea that a Family clan has the ability to \\"worldwalk\\" between their mostly medieval world and our own via their bloodline (the ability is hereditary) and a special amulet.  The main character, Miriam, is a journalist in our own modern world who, after being fired from her job, is handed an old shoebox by her adoptive mother containing the newspaper clipping about her real mother's murder and her mother's amulet (which of course takes her into the feudal world).  Once in the the Clan-dominated kingdom of Gruinmarkt, Miriam finds she is the long-lost heir to a duke and is soon involved in the clan's various economic and political machinations, backstabbings, and assassination attempts. As well as a mysterious third party who also seems to want her dead.  Far from a passive victim, Miriam leaps full-heartedly into defensive and offensive modes, happily taking on the system's economic, political, and social structures, such as those that seem to consider women inferior or keep in place a strict class structure. <br />  At times one feels Miriam jumps a bit too whole-heartedly and easily into the mix.  Her background and skills all seem a bit too conveniently created for just this situation, and while she suffers quite a  bit of physical disorientation due to the crossings, her mental/social disorientation is all too quickly glossed over.  The book also gets bogged down in jargon, mostly economic though sometimes technological as well.  And while it's compared in its publicity to Zelazny's Amber series, though it shares the world-walking premise, it's too a less comprehensive degree (though that may change) and its characters/world are not quite so fully developed. Nor it the voice.   <br />  That said, it's a quick and entertaining read and if it gets bogged down in terminology and backstory, as it does, one can perhaps ascribe that to its need as a first novel to set up the next few.  Tothat end it suffices.  It's enough of an interesting read, enough of an interesting story told well enough to lure the reader onto the next one, even if it doesn't compel him/her to do so or make him/her eagerly wait with panting breath.  Mildly recommended.	2005-07-18
US	53074803	R177ZHLTJRSUTX	015216250X	681141436	So You Want to Be a Wizard: The First Book in the Young Wizards Series	Books	4	4	5	N	N	good on its own, first book in an impressive series	So You Want to be a Wizard came along well before the current trend of young fantasy so one shouldn't dismiss it as \\"yet another Harry Potter follower\\".  Wizard centers on 13-yr-old Nita, a picked-upon young teen, and 12-yr-old Kit, another lonely young teen.  Nita, taking refuge from bullies in the local library, stumbles across the reference book providing the title of the novel and into the world of wizardry.  Shortly afterward, she meets up with Kit, who  himself has just become a wizard.   <br />   While the two of them have their share of whimsical uses for their magic (revenge on the bullies, tracking down a stolen pen), wizardry is not play.  To become wizards each has taken a life-long oath that boiled down means they're responsible at all times for pretty much everything--life (and \\"life\\" doesn't simply mean human life) and the universe--and may be asked to sacrifice themselves in the service of life. <br />  Despite the underlying seriousness of their adventures (a clash between the One--the creator--and the Lone One who left the One's service and brought death/entropy into the world), there is also quite a bit of humor and light play, especially involving a white hole as a character.   The parallel universes Nita and Kit find themselves in are vividly original and the Manhattan that arises in the climactic battle against the Lone One is beautifully captured. <br />  The book moves along at a quick pace, the characters themselves are likable and realistic and better yet, develop as the story goes along and as the series goes along as well, deepening into their maturing roles as wizards and as young adults.  Despite the magical storylines, there is a nice down-to-earth feel about the books, a matter-of-fact atmosphere that makes suspension of disbelief quite easy with regard to the magic.  This first book is a good book on its own, but the series improves as it goes along for the most part and a reader who sticks with it is rewarded with more full explanations and better, deeper characters.  Recommended.	2005-07-15
US	53074803	R16RRV5AMMP508	1590383699	481254766	Leven Thumps And The Gateway To Foo	Books	4	16	21	N	N	lots of flaws but also many great moments	Leven Thumps admittedly has some major problems.  Its main character, Leven, is too shallowly drawn and far too passive throughout the novel--more acted upon than acting.  The book is overlong by about 50-70 pages with some repetitive parts.  Its villain isn't sharply drawn enough and not quite villainous enough.  There seems to be a disappointing pattern of equating moderate mundane villainy with being overweight or homely.  And far too often Skye tells the reader what is happening rather than showing it. <br />  Despite those many flaws, however, some of them substantial, Gateway remains a highly enjoyable read due to the author's wonderful sense of originality and whimsy.  Foo is literally a sort of dreamland peopled by various creatures such as nits (humans who've wandered in accidentally and who each have a singular gift of power), rants (a creature whose body is one half is human but whose other half is in continuous flux depending on what someone in the real world is dreaming at the time) and Lithens (creatures who travel exclusively by fate).  Rare is the teen fantasy (or adult for that matter) that doesn't round up the usual suspects--elves, dwarves, dragons, horseclans, etc--and Skye should be commended just for stepping out of the mold, though even more for the creative joy he shows. <br />  Foo is threatened internally by Sabine, creator of shadows, who wishes to merge reality and foo by finding the single regular gateway between the two (the \\"normal\\" method of entering Foo is too fun to ruin by telling here).  Leven, your typical teen-who-has-a-quest-sprung-on-him character, is joined by Winter (a young girl his age of the same character mold), Clover (a small cat-like creature from Foo attached to Leven since birth), and Geth (who various incarnations include, yes, a talking toothpick). <br />   Not enough is done with Foo itself, though clearly it will be more fully explored in the second book so that isn't much of a complaint.  The plot has it fits and starts and can get repetitive, but Skye often saves it with more startlingly original ideas and humorous lines/dialogue.   Geth the talking toothpick, for example, is perhaps the  most original character I've seen and it's near impossible to read his sections without a constant chuckle. There are other examples but why ruin them? <br />  Winter is a pretty strongly drawn character, as is Geth and even to some extent Clover, though less so.  Unfortunately, Leven himself is not as strong and since Sabine is also a relatively weakly drawn character, their conflict at the center of the book pales quite a bit. <br />   As mentioned, despite the many flaws, Gateway is highly enjoyable, certainly one of the most original books in this genre I've read (and I've read a lot) if not one of the best written.  But given the choice of another adequately or slightly above average cookie-cutter fantasy for teens and one not as well written but populated by fresh ideas, I'll take the latter.  One also assumes, or at least hopes, that the author will improve on the flaws in book two, while keeping the originality and humor.  Strongly recommended despite its problems.	2005-07-14
US	53074803	R1VAB7AZB8W7BG	0805075410	49374705	The Shamer's Daughter (The Shamer Chronicles)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	solid series starter, recommended for the better sequel	The Shamer's Daughter is in itself a pleasant little story that moves along well and has at its core an extremely intriguing concept that here is unfortunately not fully explored, but the good news is that while Shamer's Daughter is an ok read, its sequel, Shamer's Signet, is a much stronger book, well-rewarding the reader who  begins the series. <br />  \\"Shamers\\" have the gift of, as one might guess, shaming.  To look into a Shamer's eyes is to look into a mirror of your soul, revealing all that you have to feel guilty about. It's no surprise, therefore, that few people look into a Shamer's eyes unless compelled by law (Shamer's are used to confirm guilt or innocence in the social system).  Dina's mother is an experienced Shamer called upon by those around her for matters of dispute, feared but respected.  Ten-year-old Dina has inherited her mother's gift and for her it is a cause of isolation since none of her like-aged peers want anything to do with her (imagine the shameful things you did as a child). <br />   When Dina's mother is kidnapped by Lord Drakan (the name alone would have clued her into his evil intent you'd think, not to mention the not-so-tame dragons he keeps below his castle), Dina must rise to the challenge of saving her mother, solving a royal murder, preventing the execution of an innocent man, and escaping herself from Drakan's clutches. <br />  As mentioned, the story moves along relatively well.  It's a quick read for the most part, with a few places that lag and a few too-contrived scenes.  If Dina acts well past her age, it's a flaw easily overlooked.  The biggest disappointment is how little is done with the potentially powerful idea of Shaming--Kaaberbol skirts around the edges but never really fully explores the idea's potential drama, leaving the story feeling a bit flat.  It isn't dull, but it doesn't have much spark to it--the kind of book you'll finish but wouldn't strongly recommend.  I'm glad, however, to have waited to review ituntil the reading the second one, as Shamer's Signet is much stronger in story and character.  So  while I'd give only a tepid recommendation to Shamer's Daughter as a stand-alone book, as an introduction into a series (the third book is out but not yet in the U.S.) I recommend it much more enthusiastically.  Read Daughter and enjoy it, but move on quickly to Shamer's Signet for a more rewarding read.  Recommended, though more as a stepping stone into the better sequel.	2005-07-13
US	53074803	RSKEYB4B64P8V	0765311771	508215649	Elantris	Books	4	4	6	N	N	good standalone with some flaws, 3 1/2 to 4	At the start, I want to give Sanderson a positive review just for doing what seems to be the unthinkable nowadays--writing a standalone fantasy, a book that actually comes to a close, a book that is just that, a book and not the \\"start of a bright new fresh trilogy that out-Tolkien's Tolkien!\\".  Luckily, the book holds up well even merits beyond being a standalone. <br />  Elantris is the name of the city that until ten  years ago was inhabited by near-gods, ordinary people randomly transformed by the \\"Shaod\\", some sort of semi-virus (my comparison not Sanderson's) that struck all segments of the population of Arelon and turned them into powerful magic users.  Elantris was a city of beauty and power, the capital of Arelon, until the magic suddenly disappeared a decade ago. the Shaod, however, still comes, though now it leaves the people disfigured and in seemingly eternal torment (pain of any sort remains forever, growing cumulatively in effect).  Those it happens to our now shut into the ruins of Elantris and left there to suffer or die.  All of this is swiftly conveyed in a two-page prologue. <br />  The story itself centers on Prince Raoden, heir to the throne of Arelon, and his wife Princess Sarene of Teod.  The two have  not met--the marriage was a political one to cement relations between the only two nations that have resisted Fjordell, an expanding religious empire.  At the book's start, Raoden is struck by the Shaod and exiled into Elantris.  The story that unfolds focuses on his refusal to give into the inevitable \\"givens' of Elantris--suffering, privation, isolation, madness.  Instead he tries to build a society within the city, continuing what had been his earlier unsuccessful attempts at reformist politics.  He also tries to learn just what had destroyed Elantris' magic. <br />   Sarene, having arrived and been told her newly-betrothed had died, stays on in Arelon and tries to strengthen the country (ruled by Raoden's inept father) so that it may standas a strong ally with Teod (ruled by her father) against Fiordell. <br />   Meanwhile, that empire's chief agent, Hrathen, a high leader in the hierarchy of the  Shu-Dereth faith has also arrived in Arelon, given the mission to convert the country within three months. Otherwise the empire armies will do so at the tip of the sword.  Hrathen is fresh from a bloody conversion, orchestrated by him, of another country and has no desire to see similar bloodshed, ruthless as he is in his attempts to convert the current Arelon leadership (and if they won't, he'll change the leadership by whatever means possible). <br />   The book shifts among the three main characters and does so quite smoothly.  The story itself is quick-paced, each one offering up its own bit of suspenseful action.  <br />   The book has its flaws.  Raoden and Sarene are a bit too consistently good, too consistently successful.  A darker tinge to each would have helped greatly. As it is, one never truly doubts whether or not they'll succeed and succeed relatively easily.  Raoden is painted as a reformer, dangerous enough that it is not beyond consideration that his own father had him \\"killed\\" so as to rid himself of a gadfly son always undermining his father's feudal system.  But there's too much of the sense of \\"royal presence and power\\" underlying his created Elantrian society to make that description feel completely true.  His study and (not really giving much away here) solution to the disappearance of the magic also seems to come too easily and its repair is pretty anti-climactic.   <br />   Hrathen's story is the strongest of the three.  Partially because his character undergoes some change, unlike the other two.  Partially because he has a more complex storyline--he must use politics and public relations to battle the Princess for control of Arelon and also battle a challenging and more fundamentalist/fanatic upstart priest from within his own group who would be just as happy to see all of Arelonkilled as converted. All this while he battles his own interior doubts.  If the other main characters are a bit pallid, Hrathen brings a much more colorful (darkly colorful) edge to things. <br />  The story, as mentioned, does come to a resolution, though it also leaves room for Sanderson to further explore these characters (well, some of them) and this land.  If he chooses to do so, I'd pick up another Elantrian book.  Elantris isn't great, but it's better than average and as a first novel bodes well for future ones.  Recommended.	2005-07-13
US	53074803	R1WUSRVDGH69S2	0765306840	984694431	The Tyranny of the Night (Instrumentalities of the Night)	Books	4	5	9	N	N	hard work through start pays off	Tyranny of the Night has a lot of what one would expect from Glen Cook.  A gritty atmosphere, a darkly wry sense of humor, a world-weary cynicism somehow melded with optimism, complex characters, a slowly engrossing story.  <br />   What doesn't it have?  A map for one.  Would it have killed the publishers to spend a few bucks having someone draw one?  I'd have taken an editor's six-year-old kid's drawing of one if I could have.  This book covers some serious geography and does so in such back-and-forth fashion that not having a map handy is almost unconscionable.   <br />     Almost as necessary--a glossary of characters. I almost never turn to them when they appear in other works, but in Tyranny Cook hop scotches among so many people--major characters, minor characters, minor characters who become major characters--that I sometimes lost track a bit of just who was who.  Throw in the usual factional infighting, double-crossing, and double-double-crossing and it made things all the more confusing.  Not throw up your hands and quit reading confusing, things never got that bad, but stop reading for a moment and try to recall who you're reading about and maybe even page back some chapters to make sure kind of confusing. <br />   But if the major flaws are the lack of a map and a glossary, then one doesn't have too much to complain about.  That isn't to say Tyranny doesn't have other issues. The story takes a while to get going and one wishes Cook had perhaps winnowed down some of the characters, geography, and storylines at least at the start to allow a deeper sense of immersion for the reader.  And magic's use and place in the world never feels quite pinned down, quite all the way there.   <br />   The story  is too involved to summarize  but  think medieval setting plus advent of better weaponry technology plus corrupt church plus crusades plus a Holy Land that fountains magic into the world plus old gods trying to hang on to their shrunken existence even as the new God threatens to swallow them whole and you have a basic idea of the context.  Toss in a major character who is sent into the West to infiltrate their counsels and try so sow obstacles in the path of a corrupt Patriarch eager to send a crusading army into the Holy Land, only to find himself rising to higher and  higher levels of authority until  he ends up commanding an army invading his own people and you have a sense of the major storyline.  Not to mention the sidestories involving Norse Gods, Soultaken, creeping ice, once-powerful spirits now feeling threatened by technology, the competition between two competing Patriarchs, internal strife in several major kingdom's, and the main character's fear that his leader that sent him on this mission hopes he gets killed along the way.  Ok, we'll mention them but not go into them. <br />   The book, with its many characters and places is a tough start, but give it time.  Get past the lengthy introduction of just who is who and where is where (did I mention a map and glossary would help?) and the book becomes richly rewarding, leaving you eager for its continuation.  Happily recommended.	2005-07-13
US	53074803	R36WHY22TZ8CRE	0786869178	542469704	American Desert	Books	3	1	2	N	N	great premise but falls short of potential	American Desert has at its no longer beating heart a great premise--the main character, UCLA professor Ted Street, beheaded in a gruesome car accident, sits up in his funeral three days later, no longer dead (though not exactly alive).  What follows veers crazily between Street's attempts to come to grips with just what he is, his family's attempts to do the same, and the attempts by various groups (religious cults, the government, the media) to co-opt him for their own uses.  The end result is somewhat mixed and admittedly somewhat disappointing as some of the stories work better than others. <br />  The satirical sections have their darkly humorous moments, but are marred by their over-the-top nature, the sometimes obviousness of the satire, and the fact that the targets are so relatively easy. <br /> The quieter sections focusing on Street's personal ruminations on his life and his death are much more successful--sometimes funny, sometimes moving, almost always achingly honest. <br />  The best sections, and unfortunately the ones least explored, deal with his family (wife, daughter, son) and their views toward his \\"return\\", as well as his own shifting views toward them.  In death, it turns out, is wisdom, though perhaps too lately gained.  These moments of familial revelation are by far the most powerful and most moving and one wishes that Everett had spent far less time on the bizarre and much more time on the domestic. <br /> Although it is a wholly enjoyable read almost from start to finish (lags a bit in some places) and the close is quite powerful, in the end, the book is disappointing mostly because it doesn't reach the promise of its premise and because it teases us with long moments of true brilliance.  Happily recommended, but sadly as well.	2005-06-29
US	53074803	RTGPX5Q62TEHI	0439456959	163376703	Dragon Rider	Books	4	1	1	N	N	good sense of story and pace, characters a bit shallow	Dragon Rider is an early Cornelia Funke novel brought to the U.S. after the success of her more recent The Thief Lord and Inkheart.  Dragon Rider begins with a young dragon named Firedrake who starts off on a quest for the Rim of Heaven, a possibly mythical land where Firedrake and his fellow dragons hope to flee to in order to escape encroaching mankind whose earth-moving machines are on their way. <br />  Firedrake leaves his valley with his friend Sorrel (a grumpy mushroom-loving brownie) and soon picks up a small helpful crew:  a young orphan human named Ben, a homunculus named Twigleg, and a professor or archaeology and fabulous beings.  He also receives help from some rats, the professor's family, and a many-eyed djinn.  His journey to the Rim of Heaven is complicated by Nettlebrand, an alchemist's creation who looks like a giant dragon but whose sole purpose is to destroy all dragons.  Years ago the group of dragons that once inhabited the Rim of Heaven fled his attack and he's  been searching for them ever since. Now he thinks he has an unsuspecting guide in Firedrake. <br />  Dragonrider is clearly aimed at a younger audience than either The Thief Lord of Inkheart.  Vocabulary and sentence structure are not as rich or sophisticated, scenes move along more quickly, characters are a bit shallowly developed.  On the other hand, Funke actually seems more comfortable writing for this age.  Her more recent books, Inkheart more so than Thief Lord, fell somewhat short of their potential, neither completely successful in achieving a sense of darker sophistication.  If the goal is somewhat less lofty in Dragonrider, it is better achieved.  While there are no real surprises here and few truly powerful moments, the story carries its readers along smoothly, quickly, and entertainingly.  A melding of this book's sense of ease and enjoyment with The Thief Lord's darker and more rich sense of atmosphere and character would make for a strong book indeed.  Recommended.	2005-06-28
US	53074803	R2U6EW54QXUUYW	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	4	3	4	N	N	overly speculative but informative and enjoyable	Will in the World is a good introductory overview into Shakespeare's life and work.  Imaginatively tracing Shakespeare's life from birth to death, Greenblatt shows us in varying degrees of detail both the man and his social/creative context.  We're exposed to most of the all-too few definite details of Shakespeare's personal life, such as his role as actor and shareholder of the Globe Theater or his role as dying father leaving items to his daughters and, somewhat, to his wife.  We get a lot of detail on speculations with regard to Shakespeare's possible Catholicism, along with the social/political context of the battles in England between Catholicism and Protestantism.  We get some details, though perhaps not quite enough, on theater at the time--delving into the various companies, rival writers, the physical theaters.     Along with the known, we get heaping portions of the unknown.  The book is full, arguably a bit too full, of speculations into all aspects of Shakespeare's life and writingsimagined meetings, imagined viewings of hangings or royal progressions, imagined sources or influences-some deeply convincing, others seemingly quite flimsy.    Despite the onslaught of detail, both verified and speculative, the reader is never far from Shakespeare's work, as Greenblatt returns again and again to the plays and poems that are at the center of Shakespeare, offering up critical readings that like the more speculative biography vary perhaps in degree of persuasion but never in degree of thoughtfulness.    In the end, while the amount and degree of speculation is sometimes discomfiting, Will in the World is not only a helpful book for anyone wishing to further their understanding of Shakespeare and his times, but also an enjoyable one.  Recommended.	2005-06-28
US	53074803	RV2FI39RGBC31	0439670195	990417170	Children of the Lamp #1: The Akhenaten Adventure	Books	3	9	13	N	N	solid if sometimes careless, series has good potential	The adventure in the Akhenaten Adventures involves a pair of twins, 12-yr-old John and Philippa Gaunt, who discover after a series of odd events that they are not simple upper-class adolescents as they've always though but a pair of djinns (\\"genie\\" is considered vulgar) about to come into their own powers.  Soon they're off to London and the tutelage of their Uncle Nimrod.  It turns out, however, that they need to learn their powers quickly, for Nimrod is involved in a dangerous quest to prevent the head of an evil djinn tribe from finding a source of great power, the key to which has been buried under the sands of Egypt.     This first book in the Children of the Lamp series has several good things going for it.  Its world of magic,  an Arabian Nights atmosphere centered on the djinn, is more original than most of the teen (and adult) fantasy out there (though Jonathan Stroud's stronger Bartimeus series has some similarities).  There is a wry sense of humor throughout most of the book and if sometimes the humor is a bit wince-inducing, for the most part it has a pleasantly light touch to it.  And there are several scenes of vivid originality.  It perhaps has one too many endings, but in general it's a well-paced, quick read.      It also has some negatives. The characterization is somewhat shallow, especially for the two young main characters and too often we are told what they are thinking rather than shown it.  Since so much of the book, by necessity, is backstory and world-building, perhaps the characters will deepen as the series continues. One hopes so.     Another problem is a lack of internal consistency.  Too many parts of the djinn powers seem glossed over or carelessly explained.  At some points of the book, Nimrod is adamant about the need to use one's powers as rarely as possible (use of the power literally robs the djinn of energy and life--in Nimrod's case he says a day for each use), but at other times he seems to use his power out of sheer whimsy.The lack of consistency on this matter becomes more of a flaw as one begins to suspect Nimrod's protestations occur merely as a means to manipulate the plot down a certain path.  There are similar problems in the book with regard to wishes and their granting-at one point there's an elaborate discussion of just how to phrase a wish that would achieve only half of a desired result--why not just wish for the whole result?-and with regards to remembering past events as at one point a character asks another if he thinks there's such a thing as ghosts when earlier in the book that character had given something of a lecture on ghosts' very definite existence.       These problems-some minor, some major-mar an otherwise entertaining book.  Clearly, though, the series has potential and if Kerr can strengthen the characters and create a stronger foundation for the series' magical premise, all while keeping his sense of humor and fast-paced adventure then the next book or two in the series will be well-worth picking up.  Recommended with the hope and expectation that the next book will improve on the first.	2005-06-27
US	53074803	R2I91AAD9U2GH9	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Decent read but not in league of recent Holmes fiction	I came to the Beekeeper's Apprentice after reading the three very recent works of Holmes-based fiction:  Michael Chabon's The Final Solution, Mitch Cullin's A Trick of the Mind, and Caleb Carr's The Italian Secretary.  Unfortunately, I think this chronology did a disservice to Laurie King, who has written a serviceably entertaining book but one that pales next to Cullin or Chabon's takes on an older Holmes (Carr's, on the other hand, was a disappointment and ranks about on par with Beekeeper's).     Beekeeper is the first in King's series of Mary Russell books and introduces us to the 15-yr-old title character as she literally stumbles over a fifty-ish and semi-retired Holmes (he's lying on the ground studying bees).  The rest of the book details from Mary's perspective the growing relationship between the two of them as Holmes, recognizing her obvious intellect and observational skills, takes her on as an apprentice and perhaps, it's hinted as the book moves along, as something more.  Along the way the two solve together (thought the degree of partnership varies) several minor local cases, a more important more distant case, and finally a true \\"masterminded\\" mystery that threatens both of their lives.     The Holmes here is not exactly the Holmes of Doyle, but is close enough that most fans won't mind.  At times his emotions seem a bit uncomfortably displayed for the Holmes we know, and the references to concerns about his mind seem a bit overblown (he is after all 50 not 90, as in the Chabon and Cullin books), but those are relatively minor annoyances.  For the most part he's a fondly familiar but still original version.       Russell is certainly a strong character with a good narrative voice, but she consistently reads well above her stated ages throughout the book.  In a better vein, King does a good job of showing her learning the ropes for though she is clearly a superior intellect, there are many times early on where she is a step or two behind the  moreexperienced Holmes. As she gains experience, these times happen less and less, as it should be.     The mysteries themselves are all pretty pallid I thought, the first somewhat intentionally.  There is little actual sense of suspense in the book and even the big mystery at the end is sort of ho-hum, not helped by a long interruption as Holmes and Russell decamp for Palestine.  The solutions are mostly declared to the reader as Holmes and/or Russell rattle off clues that the reader didn't have.  Whether this is a detraction or not depends more on personal whim I'd guess.  I prefer having a chance to solve the mystery and so this became a negative for me; others may not mind.      Watson, Mycroft, and other well-known Holmes characters  make their appearance and while they all have some nice small touches, none of them feel really fully there.  Perhaps this changes in later books in the series as we see them more often.     In the end, as mentioned above, Beekeeper is a serviceable read.  It has some pacing issues where it seems to lag a bit, there are some minor character annoyances, it lacks somewhat in suspense, and if you prefer to try and \\"beat\\" the detective you don't have that option here.  But it is mildly entertaining, Russell is a strong character (if perhaps a bit too much so), and Holmes is fondly brought to life (again, perhaps a bit too much so with regard to his emotional nature).  It doesn't rise anywhere near the quality in terms of writing or impact as either Trick of the Mind or The Final Solution, but it admittedly has different aims (for instance, tough to write a sad near-eulogy for Holmes if you plan on writing an entire series).  While I won't continue on in the series myself, there just isn't enough here to entice me in to the exclusion of other books, I can see where some would happily if not excitedly continue in.  A mild recommendation.	2005-06-22
US	53074803	R3MEXY51W4C5E5	0385750765	308642435	Edge Chronicles 4: The Curse of the Gloamglozer (The Edge Chronicles)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	middle range of the series	The Edge Chronicles have been a pretty inconsistent series, I've found, with the books varying greatly in interest and quality.  Gloamglozer falls in the middle of the four books, but falls more into the positive than negative range.   <br />  The fourth book in the series, Gloamglozer is actually the first chronologically, going  back in time to tell the story of how Quint and Maris met before they married and had Twig--the hero of the first few three books.  The first book suffered from its shallow, episodic nature. The second book, Stormchaser, was a large improvement over the first, with more focus and depth. The third book, Midnight over Sanctaphrax, was also better than the first, but somewhat of a regression.  Gloamglozer improves on Sanctaphrax, but still falls short of Stormchaser, which remains the high point so far of the series. <br />   Like Stormchaser, Gloamglozer is a more focused book. Rather than involving an episodic journey through sometimes imaginative, sometimes padded geography, it stays in Sanctaphrax the entire time.  Quint is apprenticed to Linius Pallitax, the High Academe of the floating city of Sanctaphrax.  Linius has some sort of terrible secret that has him disappearing for long periods of time, giving strange tasks to Quint and  ignoring his daughter Maris.  The secret also seems to be taking a near-fatal toll physically and emotionally on Linius, so much so that Quint and Maris join forces despite some early antagonism to try and save Linius and Sanctaphrax (they now worry Linius' secret may put the city at risk).  All of this takes place amid the cutthroat politics of the floating city as various factions plot against each other and the High Academe. <br />    As mentioned, the plot is much less episodic and remains tightly focused in terms of geography (set only in Sanctaphrax) and plot (Linius' secret).  Strange creatures make important appearances, but there are so few of them that this book doesn't fall into the \\"look-at-the-cool-monster-I-made-on-this-page\\" trap that sometimes befalls the earlier  books.  That said, the two major monsters here are somewhat pale and anticlimactic and never really serve to raise the intensity of the book, no matter the author's attempts.  The suspense with regard to Linius' secret is handled well for the most part, but the book seems a bit over-long, letting the suspense dwindle away somewhat. <br />   Despite the length, neither Quint nor Maris, nor for that matter any of the characters with one possible exception have much depth to them or have much emotional impact on the reader, a problem that runs throughout the series. <br />   In the end, Gloamglozer is a fast read and a decently entertaining one, but like the series as a whole, never manages to take that next step into truly engaging fantasy, with story and characters that grip you.  The books show flashes of gradual improvement, though it's disappointing that the last two have not been as good as the second one, but the potential is there and if the author continues to fill in stories and backgrounds of the same few characters, perhaps they'll take on that added depth the series needs.  Tepidly recommended. <br />	2005-06-21
US	53074803	R38Y1AOQQ70TR6	1573222984	401018820	The Portrait	Books	4	8	8	N	N	just right length and pace to compel throughout	Pears pulls off a difficult task in The Portrait, asking his readers to stay with a single spoken monologue uninterrupted by descriptive passages, internal monologues, or conversation with other characters.  In the hands of a lesser writer this easily could have been a disaster, but Pears handles it with aplomb.   <br />  The speaker is Henry MacAlpine, a well-known and successful portraitist from early 1900's London who years ago abandoned all of that to live a stripped down life on a tiny rough island off the coast of Brittany.  The listener is his long-time (though they've had no contact for years) friend/mentor/nemesis William Naysmith, England's foremost art critic come to the island to sit for a second portrait by MacAlpine. <br />  Over the course of several days, through MacAlpine's uninterrupted speech, we learn how MacAlpine became an artist, how the two men met, how Naysmith first mentored then befriended then betrayed MacAlpine, why MacAlpine left London for his island.  What we don't learn, not until the very end (and no, I won't be telling you), is why Naysmith came to the island to sit for the portrait, why he continues to sit during MacAlpine's often angry and insulting ranting, or why MacAlpine agreed to paint him and continues to do so. <br />  These questions lend a bit of suspense and mystery to the work, though to be honest the major mystery is pretty easily deduced quite early in the book.  As is the book's conclusion.  The pleasure, however, is not in the destination but the journey.  In this case, the singular voice of MacAlpine, the shades of emotion conveyed through that voice, the bits and pieces of personal and artistic history that come together to form a compelling whole, the comeuppance of a powerful and abusive critic, the attempt by the reader to unravel the trustworthy and the not-so-trustworthy from MacAlpine's narration. <br />   Throughout it all Pears is in complete control.  He never holds a note too long, knows just when it's time to shift tone or speech pattern or topic and does so effortlessly and smoothly. The same is true as he nears the end, which in terms of length is just about as far as the novel can go.  Any farther and the style and structure rather than compel would alienate, would annoy, would begin to crumble under its own weight.  Instead, it ends not only as it should but when it should (something all too rare recently it seems).  An excellent read with nothing out of place.  Highly recommended.	2005-06-17
US	53074803	R26VVWRD03O1GC	0765303639	610762504	The Wounded Hawk (The Crucible Series, Book Two)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	carries some of same flaws but better than first, strong 3	Set amid the drama and cast of the 100 Years War (though more parallel than true history), this sequel to The Nameless Day continues the story of Thomas Neville, former cleric returned to his noble life, as he tries to complete the quest given him by archangel Michael--to retrieve a mysterious casket that will allow him to send back to hell the demons that now roam the world.  As readers of the first book know (and only readers of the first one should read this), Thomas himself has become unsure of just which side is the \\"good\\" one in the battle between the demons and angels and his uncertainty continues throughout this book, though not quite as pronounced. <br />  Though plagued by some of the same flaws as The Nameless Day (some character inconsistencies, some surprisingly careless writing), Wounded Hawk manages to easily avoid the \\"middle book\\" syndrome.  Instead of acting simply as a weaker bridge book to the trilogy's conclusion, Wounded Hawk expands and deepens both the characters and the story, improving on its predecessor in all ways. <br />  Some of the improvement occurs because the character/plot inconsistencies, while not completely evaded, are much reduced.  Some of the improvement occurs because the main character of Thomas recaptures some humanity and thus is a much more palatable character with whom to spend hundreds of pages.  Improvement also lies in the book's tighter focus, mostly centering around a few personal relationships and the royal politics of England, specifically the battle between Richard II and Hal of Bolingbroke.  It's also a better paced book, with scenes moving quickly and (usually) smoothly from one to the other, with no sense of being bogged down.  The plot, while still containing some twists and turns, some shifts of allegiance, is crisper and cleaner, less of a muddle than in book one.  The characters are all much more interesting and are captured much more fully, even the secondary ones. <br />  The book's flaws are prettymuch the same as in Nameless Day, though as mentioned they are greatly reduced.  There are still annoying (though not infuriating) inconsistencies in character thoughts/actions and in points of view.  Douglass has a tendency to tell us too much rather than allowing us to infer from actions or dialogue.  Some actions seem a bit implausible.  And some shifts in characters' beliefs seem to move all too quickly.  Noticeable as these are, however, the book's strengths outweigh its flaws and I found myself pretty swept along in what was happening even as I found myself occasionally annoyed by how it was being presented.  Certainly if you've read book one and enjoyed it, continue the series.  If like me you had mixed feelings about book one, I'd strongly recommend giving the sequel a chance as it's so much better.  And if you really didn't like book one at all, then you're not reading this anyway so blah blah blah. <br />  Recommended.	2005-06-15
US	53074803	RFUA7X4WI1EAG	1594200440	549104190	A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian: A Novel	Books	2	9	16	N	N	funny at times but marred by obviousness, stylistic tics	A Short History of Tractors has gotten a lot of positive press, so readers of this review might want to take a look at those reviews as well, but to be honest, I can't figure out just what in the novel garnered such praise.  The main story is the reconciliation of two feuding sisters that comes as they must ally themselves to try and stop their 84-yr-old Ukrainian father from marrying Valentina, a 36-yr-old Ukranian who needs a husband in order to stay in England and live the Western lifestyle she so desires.  As the comical hijinks ensue, more serious issues are slowly revealed with regard to the family history.    There are some funny moments in the book,  but they were overshadowed by the book's weaknesses.  The plot is relatively banal--an old man lusts  after  the big-breasted gold-digger younger wife.  And while both Nicholai and Valentina are offered some dignified moments (Nicholai through his engineering intelligence and his obvious loneliness, Valentina through some moments of empathy as felt  by the narrator), the moments are rare so each tends to be more caricature than character.  The two sisters, Vera and Nadezdha, have been feuding since their mother died a few years earlier and Vera convinced her mother to add a codicil to the will benefiting her daughters.  While neither is as broadly drawn as Nicholai or Valentina, neither do they come across as fully fleshed out characters.  Revealed through short conversations, briefly described actions, or in the case of Nadezdha internal monologue (she narrates the story), their personalities are mostly glossed over and have a constructed-for-the-sake-of-plot feel to them. Little of their self-described emotion feels sincere.  Side characters are even less fully drawn.     The main plot--marriage and subsequent attempts at divorce or deportment-- has a predictable movement and conclusion and its many steps toward that inevitable conclusion start to feel repetitive early on.    The secondary plot, the sisters' reconciliation and the revelation of a darker family history is also relatively predictable and while more sad, really almost as banal. We know the family went through the Stalin years in the Ukraine; it therefore isn't all that surprising to learn there was some tragedy, some sacrifice, some deprivation, etc. that came along with it.  More surprising, and not particularly plausible, is that Nadezdha seems surprised by it.    Besides problems of plot and character, the book had some stylistic annoyances.  There were too many parenthetical expressions (most of them unnecessary, adding to the book's sense of obviousness), too many cute names (Big Sis, War Baby, Mrs. Flog 'Em . . ) too often repeated, too many lists, and so on.  The history of tractors book-within-a-book never felt integrated into the novel and so came across as more a gimmicky way to add some seriousness or weight to an otherwise light novel.     As mentioned, there were some funny moments, at times the book has a breezy feel to it, but overall it was quite disappointing, feeling more like a concept that would have worked great as a long short story mixing comedy and drama but failed in most aspects as a novel. Not recommended.	2005-06-15
US	53074803	RY1VG04C9B16B	0374281394	935983820	The Good Wife: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	mundanely moving, filled with sharp moments of insight	One might be forgiven for thinking Stewart O'Nan is some long-past author based on The Good Wife.  After all, there are no post-post-modern pyrotechnics of style or voice, no multiple narrators, no funny typography, no pop culture reference, no winking ironic nods to irony.  All he does is create compellingly human situations and people them with vividly realized characters, presenting the whole in sharp, crystalline prose that carries you along smoothly and seamlessly with characters you care about. <br />  In this case, O'Nan gives us Patty Dickerson, eight months pregnant and about to awakened by the phone call that will chart the next thirty years of her life-her husband Tommy calling from jail to tell her he and a friend have been arrested in the death of an elderly woman they were attempting to rob.  We then follow Patty through the many day-to-day and  year-to-year details as she copes with the trial, the appeals process, the imprisonment, the attempts at probation. All the while trying to raise her son and ward off the acidic effects of poverty as evident through the typically sharp details offered by O'Nan, the homemade Christmas ornaments, the self-doubt over the selling price of a used car, the constant move from one low-paying job to another. <br />  Along the way she takes what help she can. Some of it expected--she moves in for a while with the other \\"bad\\" sister, she takes a job on Tommy's old truck thanks to his buddy Russ, she finds some small commiseration with other prisoner wives.  She also finds it in unexpected places, mostly from her mother whom we're set up early on to believe will simply pull an \\"I warned you\\" and let Patty fall. <br />   Patty's battles--with the court system, with her family, with Tommy, her growing son, with poverty, with minimum wage jobs, with self-doubt and feelings of faithlessness, with the passage of time and the dullness of geography are conveyed in single-voiced present tense in sequential order.  And some willprobably find this dull--too plain or too plainly presented.  But it's the completeness of the picture, the fullness of the character, the vivid detail of the mundane that drags us into what becomes a profoundly if quietly moving story of much sorrow and some little triumph. <br />   If there is a single flaw in the book, it's the somewhat abstract presence of Patty's son Casey, who admittedly is seemingly meant to be somewhat sidelined based on his personality and character (and perhaps as well as a tangible reminder of the long-range impact of a single moment's stupidity and cruelty).  Outside of that minor point, however, there's simply nothing to complain of here.  It's a strong work by one of our best modern writers.  Highly recommended.	2005-06-12
US	53074803	R3169Z8X5ER52U	0439700930	60523067	The Dark Hills Divide: The Land of Elyon, Book 1	Books	2	29	36	N	N	interesting premise but passive character and little spark	The Dark Hills Divide has a good if not all that original premise at its core--a kingdom of four cities completely walled in and a 12-yr-old heroine who longs to see what's beyond the walls.  The walls were built a generation ago by Thomas Warvold, a well-traveled adventurer who came up with the idea to overcome people's fears of expansion into unknown and allegedly dangerous lands by building walled roads and towns using temporarily freed convicts as laborers.  Decades later, Warvold's death sets into motion a slew of activity as the towns are threatened by those inside and out (internal kingdom strife, a possible high-level traitor, the supposedly re-imprisoned convicts) and previous assumptions are questioned (the dangers of the outside land, the effectiveness of the walls versus their societal cost, etc.)    At the center of all of this is young Alexa Daley, daughter to one of the town's mayors, friend and confidante of Warvold, frequenter of the kingdom's largest library, and all-around pest to the man in charge of the kingdom's safety--Pervis.  When her dream of seeing what's beyond the walls comes true, Alexa uncovers a plot against her city and a possible traitor.  She also discovers magical stones, talking animals, and a new perspective on the walls' consequences.     All of this could have been put to good use,  but the book falls mostly flat. Part of the problem is that Alexa is, especially in the first half, far too passive a character.  She is told what to do by adults or animals and then she goes ahead and does it.  There's little sense of adventure or danger in what she does and simply declaring her adventurous or heroic or frightened doesn't make her so.  The land outside the walls is covered pretty perfunctorily so it never really comes alive for us.  The same is true of the land inside the walls, where we meet relatively few people (all of them seemingly old or middle-aged men--where are the women and children?) and get very little sense of culture.     The plot is also problematic.  As mentioned above, there is little sense of danger or suspense for the first half of the book; the arduous journey/quest Alexa makes is mostly conveyed through telling us it's arduous and by describing her blisters.  Again, there's little sense of substance to it.  The puzzles in the story seem arbitrarily constructed and solved, adding little to the story and feeling therefore more of a gimmicky add-on because puzzle stories are \\"in\\" nowadays.  And there are some plot points that don't seem to add up or don't flow very naturally from the story.     The second half of the book, as Alexa searches for the traitor among them, is better than the first, but not particularly strong itself, only in comparison to what comes before.  In the end, the book as a whole is a disappointment, falling flat in most aspects of good fantasy--strong world creation, compelling plot, vivid characterization, imaginative spark.  Not recommended.	2005-06-11
US	53074803	R380OZPOTR8N4L	0393060349	511808231	The History of Love: A Novel	Books	4	17	20	N	N	some flaws but highly recommended, strong 4	Some problems with History of Love <br />1) sometimes the reliance on numbered lists seems at best overly cute at worst simply gimmicky <br /> <br />2) only one of the characters is strongly, earthily, humanly realistic <br /> <br />3) pet repetitive and frequent sentences such as \\"And yet.\\" or \\"But.\\" add little but distraction  <br /> <br />4) too many characters are poetically, whimsically odd <br /> <br />5) and obsessive <br /> <br />6) and eloquent and/or precocious  <br /> <br />7) the underlying tragedy, sadness of human existence sometimes is diluted by the sense that the characters and their stories are simply created and manipulated to serve a very well thought out plot that must go certain ways <br /> <br />8)  the novel-within-the-novel varies in quality, sometimes as wonderful as Borges or Calvino, at other times feeling like those two had been co-opted by an overly precious writer <br /> <br />And yet. <br />    History of Love is almost always beautifully written.  Its main characters, elderly Leopald Gursky (failed author unaware that his one great work thought lost has in fact been out there changing lives) and Alma Singer (young teen named after Gursky's love--a character in his novel) are strongly portrayed, especially Gursky who stands out somewhat as the one character in the novel that acts almost always in truly human fashion.  His voice, his tone, his insights and memories, his sorrows (many) and triumphs (few) alone make the book worth reading.  Alma is almost as strong, though she falls at times into the implausible or the precocious.  Despite those instances, her search for happiness (either in her own young life or her mother's older more grieving one) and her sharply biting ache for her deceased father, make her a memorable and moving character.   Her mother and brother have their moments, but they unfortunately feel much more artificial in their whimsical oddities and thus have less of an emotional impact.  The plot sometimes seems unnecessarily complex, at times too neatly put together, but it holds one's attention throughout and has a strong payoff toward the latter quarter of the novel.  In the end, while History of Love has its flaws, it remains one of the more moving and enjoyable novels of the year.  Highly recommended.	2005-06-11
US	53074803	R2XUNPSOEVQFZG	0439686261	881404796	The Icemark Chronicles #1: The Cry of the Icemark	Books	3	12	16	N	N	strong idea but weak execution, low three	Cry of the Icemark has some excellent imaginative material to work with, but it's almost as if once the author struck gold with the idea, he decided to leave it lying in the ground.  Icemark therefore ends up disappointing more than rewarding. <br />  It follows 14-yr-old Thirrin, princess and heir to the throne of Icemark, a small northern kingdom threatened by an aggressive massive southern empire and its never-lost-a-battle general.  To survive, Thirrin and her father decide to look to their ancient enemies of the north against whom they've fought many battles:  the werewolves and the vampire King and Queen. <br />  Luckily, and I do mean luckily, as in barely explained at all, with the werewolves years of being enemies, of being hunted by humans, of being treated like animals is wiped away by a single two-minute encounter between Thirrin and the king of the werewolves. Nothing about this encounter and the subsequent treaty between the two races makes much sense with regard to the speed or enthusiasm with which it happens.  It's all glossed over far too quickly.  This in fact is the major flaw throughout the novel.  The werewolves, vampires, and giant leopards even farther to the north all are swept mysteriously under by Thirrin's charm with no sense that some of them at least have been at war for literally centuries.  <br />   Even worse, none of these various species or their lands is explored in any  detail.  In their oddity and dark strangeness they are ripe for some depth, for some insight into their thinking or their cultures, but we get almost none of that.  We're told for instance that the vampires turn their nose up at blood \\"tainted\\" by animals, but since they can't (supposedly) get human blood anymore since their loss in battle to Thirrin's father, what then do they eat?  The werewolves are so obviously intelligent, compassionate, even humorous--what took so long for rapprochement between them and humans?  Questions like these (and ideally their answers) would go a long way toward giving the world creation a sense of reality and substance.  Unfortunately though, too often the world seems created simply for plot rather than as a real place where the plot happens to real people. <br />   The same lack of depth mars the characterization as both Thirrin and her young warlock friend Oskan are mostly two dimensional, shifting in maturity as the needs of the plot warrant and showing little growth or depth, or at least natural growth. <br />   The plot mostly divides into two parts. The first is an episodic and somewhat flat march north by Thirrin and Oskan to gather allies.  While the allies themselves are a treat, as mentioned, Hill doesn't do enough with them beyond simply introducing them.  The second half of the plot deals with the invasion/siege by the southern empire and its psychotic general.  Here the pace and tension pick up greatly and though some of the logistics seem a bit implausible (even for fantasy), Hill shows a better hand at crafting exciting battle scenes than he does in world or character building.   <br />   In the end, Icemark is a passable book, weak in many respects and disappointing in that its underlying creativity isn't matched by the page-by-page presentation of the creativity.  Based on the spark of imagination evident here, I'd pick up a second book by Hill, but probably wouldn't give it a lot of time if its execution were as weak as here.  This particular book isn't recommended, but give the author a shot the next time around.	2005-06-08
US	53074803	R28XSP4DDOXCZH	0375422714	629465826	In the Company of Cheerful Ladies (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 6)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A welcome rejuvenation and return	McCall Smith's characters are back in this sixth book of the series, but even better, so is the sense of delight that was lacking in the fifth book.  While that fifth novel, Full Cupboard of Life, felt as if Smith were tired of the series, just going through the motions, Cheerful Ladies comes back with all the strengths of the first four novels. <br />   As always, there are a few minor mysteries to solve and as usual some are more personal than others for Mma Ramotswe and her small group of fellow characters--her husband Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, her assistant Mma Makutsi, and even one of Mr. Matekoni's apprentices.  The only \\"real\\" mystery, one contracted for by an out-of-town banking group, is a missing Zambian embezzler.  More interesting by far, however, are the smaller, more intimate mysteries:  who was the intruder in Ramotswe's house, who is the strange rich woman cavorting with Matekoni's apprentice Charley, what is Mma Ramotswe's former husband doing back in town, what happened to her van?  Even more importantly, where did that strange pumpkin come from and who took Mma Makutsi's new teapot? <br />   One doesn't obviously read Smith for the depth of criminal analysis or the torturous suspense, but to revel once more in the droll humor, in the easy natural language, to be, as the title says, in the company of cheerful ladies (and men).  While it's a pleasure to return to all this at the previous level of quality, even better (and perhaps part of the reason for the rejuvenated feel of this book) is the addition of two new characters--one who enters the story by being knocked from his bike by Mma Ramotse's van and another who enters via Mma Makutsi's new dance class.  They add a nice breath of freshness, broadening Mma Ramotse's world so as to prevent it from getting stale.  An even darker wind rushes through with the appearance of her old husband who, as anyone familiar with their story might guess, is up to little good.  And as in the last few books, Smith adds depth by continuing to peer more closely into the lives of side characters such as Mma Makutsi (who really is no longer a side character) and apprentice Charley.   <br />   All in all, while the fifth book was a major disappointment, Cheerful Lady regains the form and pleasure of the first few--returning to the original strengths but improving on them with more depth, more darkness, and more characters. Strongly recommended for fans (especially those who may have been tempted to give up after five) and recommended for new readers  only after they've read the first ones, more for the emotional impact than for any plot needs.	2005-06-05
US	53074803	R1MN5KZT6VJYDJ	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	sad drop-off in quality, skim this and go to #6--much better	First the bad news.  Full Cupboard, the fifth book in this charming series, is a major disappointment, dropping off in quality in almost all aspects.  If it were the last book in the series, I'd tell fans to simply skip it and hang on to the fond memories of books one through four.  Now the good news. While Cupboard is painfully disappointing, number six in the series, In the Company of Cheerful Women, returns full-heartedly to the quality of the rest of the books. So the drop-off is only temporary.    That said, there isn't much else to say about this one beyond the recommendation to simply skim it for the basic plot and then move on quickly to the next one.  Full Cupboard seems tired and incomplete. As if Smith were either no longer interested in the series and its characters or as if he sent in a very rough draft to get the publisher off his back.  The gentle humor, the fond warmth, the small insights into the people and place of Botswana are all seriously lacking here.  The mysteries, while never a major part of the previous books, have here been shrunk down to almost nothing and certainly nothing the reader cares much about.  The personal side of the book, always a prevalent aspect, here focuses on Mr. Matekoni's long delay in asking Precious to marry him, a problem that is far too drawn out, far too predictable in its conclusion, and therefore just not very compelling.  Suffice to say that readers won't miss much if they skip this one altogether, but if they feel the need to read the series in order, they should skim right through it. As for those new to the series, this is definitely not the book to start with.  Less because of plot (the first four books are somewhat recapped and anyway the plots aren't all that important to the series) than because it stands out as so much worse than the other.    The series is highly recommended; this book not at all.	2005-06-05
US	53074803	R316N88BXHRS6P	0374125120	139244607	The Coast of Akron: A Novel	Books	2	19	22	N	N	obvious talent but one wishes put to better use	There is a lot to like in Miller's Coast of Akron:  her sense of humor, vivid and original descriptions, sharp use of language, a boatload of absurdity.  Unfortunately, these appear more as isolated bits and pieces while the larger whole-book aspects that one tends to judge a novel on--story, character, and narrative--are much less effective.  Akron, therefore, is a book that while you could open it randomly and point to almost any sentence or paragraph as proof of the writer's obvious talent, you just don't want to read. <br />  It focuses on a single family made up of ludicrous characters:  Lowell Haven--famed self-portrait artist of personality (think a more self-aware, more fraudulent Andy Warhol) who hasn't \\"painted\\" in five years; his ex-wife Jenny--failed artist now involved with a children's art museum whose younger life is conveyed via her diary notes; Fergus--Jenny's flamboyantly gay childhood friend now rich and living (with Lowell) in a status-dripping Tudor mansion in Akron complete with suits of armor and a motto; Merit--Jenny and Lowell's daughter who escapes her marriage with an obsessive-compulsive statistician with periodic wildly inappropriate affairs (including her current one with an Iron-Maiden tee-shirt wearing employee of hers), and Wyatt--Merit's husband who is more attuned to his self-invented lighting system than to his marriage. <br />  The characters are over-the-edge and Miller uses their inevitable fall into dissolution  to poke fun at lots of personal and societal issues.  There's a lot here on art, on gender, on identity, status, artificiality, celebrity, pop culture, etc. And it all works for about the first quarter or third of the book. But then the reader begins to grow a bit wearied of the episodic nature; of the over-the-top nature of the characters; of the sprawling, somewhat disconnected plot.  Like the family, the novel starts to fall apart (though unlike the family it at least had a promising start). <br />  One continues tobe impressed by the building blocks of the book--Miller's sentences, her language, her imagery (dolls with faces removed, etc.) but the blocks never seem to actually construct anything.  Because the characters are so over-the-top, because they're so removed from reality and so unlikable in many ways, they can't save the plot because one doesn't care much about what happens to them.  Fergus comes closest to gaining our empathy, but never quite does, while at the other side of the spectrum is Lowell, who is truly unlikable but also such a vague, unsubstantial presence that we don't get the joy of truly hating him, or feeling much at all.  Luckily,  this inability to connect with the characters makes the ending even less of a disappointment than it is. <br />  I'd certainly try Miller's next novel because Akron shows not just great potential but great current ability, but I'd recommend passing on Coast of Akron and hoping that ability is put to better use in novel number two.	2005-06-04
US	53074803	R1L9XK2CSO0LSK	0385750730	532484532	Midnight Over Sanctaphrax (The Edge Chronicles 3)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	better than first, not as good as second	Sanctaphrax falls into the middle of the first three books of the series.  While Twig's character is enlarged upon and other interesting ones added, the book falls too easily into the same episodic nature of the first book, where one peril follows closely upon another with none of them ever explored in enough depth so that they truly feel dangerous or suspenseful.  The nature of the basic plot, Twig searching for his lost crew after his skyship explodes and hurls them in different directions, also unfortunately lends itself to a sense of dull repetition as he searches, finds, sends off for safekeeping, and searches once again with the same results.   <br />  At times the plot is somewhat contrived and at others may call for a bit too much suspension of disbelief, but overall it's imaginative and energetic, moving along in quick if repetitive fashion.  It also, like the second, improves on the first by adding other levels of depth beyond simple fear of being killed/eaten (though as in all three, there is a fair amount of both).  Here issues of slavery and class rear their heads and if they are handled a bit sketchily, they do deepen the book's complexity and pleasure. <br />   Recommended, though a bit disappointing as it seems to regress a bit from the second book.	2005-05-30
US	53074803	R2ABS4BCACSPH8	061856828X	189151308	An Unfinished Season: A Novel	Books	3	13	15	N	N	some wonderful prose but story, characters didn't captivate	There's no doubt that An Unfinished Season is a beautifully written book. The prose slowdances its way throughout the novel in meditative, reflective, gorgeously precise and crafted lines.  And while there is a precision to much of the prose, the background geography and sociology of 50's era Chicago is more evocation, more atmospheric mood and presence than a mortar and brick sense of reality, which fits the memory tone/structure of the book. <br />  Told as a long reminiscence, the narrator is Will Ravan as he looks back on the summer of his 19-year-old self, a summer where he moved through three worlds that were, in a phrase of the times, separate but equal in their impact on him. The first is that of his family, which we are introduced to in a time of great stress as they deal with an increasingly violent strike at the father's printing business, his mother's father's death (a father who did not get along with his son-in-law), and the increasing coldness of his parents' marriage, which leads at one point to a separation and a closer bonding between Will and his father. <br />   The second world is his day job at a city newspaper, one that focuses more on the seedier aspects of life, allowing Will (and Just) to muse on items of class and politics. <br />  The third and final world is the debutante party world of affluent North Shore.  Here Will meets Aurora and her psychiatrist father and here we start to see him moving into young adulthood as he separates from his family and moves among his peers, though never seeming to fit all the way in.  His relationship with Aurora grows more intense and this world more intimate and personal and eventually more overwhelming than the others. <br />   As mentioned at the start, Season is a meticulously crafted novel. Its prose evocative and precise, the mood created in subtle, pervasive fashion, Will's growth and his movement among the intertwined worlds sharply and subtly portrayed.  But if anything, the story was a bit toosubtle, a bit too tenuous for my liking.  I never felt much attached to Will or any of the other characters, never felt fully engaged by any of them and so didn't really care too much what happened to them.  Part of this was the style and structure, part of it the sense of reminiscence rather than in-the-moment presence. But part of it too was that the same sense of craftsmanship that went into the descriptive passages was also present in the dialogue, so that the characters spoke as characters rather than people.  Too little of the dialogue rang true, making the characters feel artificial and thus diminishing my engagement with them. Similarly, Will's narrative voice was also far too eloquent and reflective at times.  While his actual language could be explained away (somewhat) by the fact that he is narrating as an older, wiser adult rather than as a 19-year-old boy, the observations and insights he recalls himself making at 19 (as opposed to as an adult looking back) struck me as false through being far too mature and sophisticated.  A problem Just himself perhaps perceived as he often has characters remark on how \\"old\\" Will seems at 19, declarations that seemed more contrived than sincere. <br /> The book's episodic, somewhat random structure didn't help matters and this combined with the lack of engagement with the characters and a sense of unreality overlying it all made it a slow read.  In fact, I picked it up and put it down so often that I started and finished 3 or 4 other books during the same time.  It wasn't so slow or bad that I just gave up (I've learned over the years there are too many books out there to keep reading bad ones so I'm not one of those who finishes a book just because he started it) but it wasn't interesting enough to make me keep reading consistently.  The end is well-done and has its own power, but overall the book was a disappointment.  Based on his reputation and his obvious writing talent, I'd pick up another novel by Just, but I wouldn't recommend this particular one. <br />	2005-05-30
US	53074803	R331JC9TBDLYDE	0385750250	261137285	The Cup of the World	Books	3	3	5	N	N	strong 3, good detail and atmosphere, character a bit weak	Cup of the World centers on Phaedra, daughter and only child of the Warden of Trant, an all-important land/fortress in a land with a long history of internal warfare.  Her combination of looks, inheritance, and intelligence makes her the prime bridal catch, even one of the two princes is her suitor, but she rejects them all for two basic reasons: fear (of losing her independence and her life as her mother did, dying in childbirth) and love (of a strange man who comes to her in her dreams).  Her father gives in as he has to her desires ever since she threw a hunger strike at him when he considered remarrying.  Her marriage is resolved when she slips away with her dream man, who it turns is real and has some strange abilities.  Her marriage, her choice of husband (though she didn't know who he was at the time), and her rejection of many of the land's proudest men spark political and personal problems.  This is the first third or so of the book and the rest follows Phaedra through the years of warfare between her husband and the king.  During that time, she becomes pregnant, gives birth to a son, begins to uncover some of the secrets underlying her husband's strange powers, and realizes her newborn child is being threatened by otherworldly creatures. <br />  The plot intertwines several story strands and does so smoothly. We never leave Phaedra's point of view, which dilutes somewhat the impact of some of what is reported to her.  The war is mostly background given in second hand reports or letters--those looking for the typical fantasy descriptions of big battles would best look elsewhere.  The politics are relatively narrowly focused but not dumbed down. Chess is a frequent metaphor and an apt one throughout the novel--there are levels and levels of play and some characters look ahead better than others. <br />  We spend a lot of time with Phaedra but despite that she never really held together as a particularly strong character for me--I never felt a sense of true depth to her.  She wasn't poorly drawn, but she was more an adequate mover of plot than an interesting character in her own right.  A statement I'd make about just about all of the characters.  They served their purposes in the story, but I can't say I cared much about what happened to any of them (part of the reason for the three rather than a four).  The same holds true for the major antagonist of the story, which is too bad because there was a lot of potential in his creation and basic description. <br />   The detail and atmospheric description made up for some of this.  It was mostly well-paced but started to lag a bit in some areas toward the end.  The ending itself seemed a bit rushed or abrupt, where too much information was recapped by characters rather than allowed to flow naturally out of the story.  <br />   The same strengths of story and atmosphere combined with improved depth of character would make for a strong second novel.  Somewhat recommended.	2005-05-29
US	53074803	RCNMOTLFPKQ6D	0689867441	79990372	The Sea of Trolls	Books	3	16	21	N	N	solid story and characters but lacks some spark, upper 3	I seem to be a minority opinion with regard to Sea of Trolls, something readers of this review might want to consider.  While it was a nice breath of fresh air to see a book that incorporated the Norse mythology involving Odin, Thor, Ragnarok, etc., something relatively rare in all the fantasy out there, it seemed the book as a whole lacked a spirit or spark to make it stand out. <br />  The story follows just-started apprentice bard Jack as he and his little sister Lucy are taken prisoner by raiding Northmen (basically Vikings).  The book opens with Jack starting his apprenticeship, moves quickly to the raid and subsequent capture/enthralldom, then slows down a bit in pace.  The story is mostly episodic, as Jack experiences a sea voyage, another raid, a short time as thrall to Olaf (the giant Northman berserker who captured him), and a confrontation with Olaf's queen, a half-troll half human shapeshifter whom Jack inadvertently insults in public via magic.  The queen threatens to kill Lucy if Jack doesn't make amends and so Jack, Olaf, and Thorgill (a young tough short-tempered Northwoman trying to become a berserker) must quest for Mimir's Well where Jack will hopefully learn how to undo what he has done to the Queen.  Along the way he faces dragons, troll-bears, trolls themselves, the Norns, giant spiders, and other obstacles. <br />  The positives are several, beginning with the use of the Norse mythology.  Not only does the mythology provide characters, monsters, and background, but the myths themselves are often told by various characters and Farmer does a nice job of conveying them in easy, quick fashion.  The sense of detail with regard to culture and geography are also well done. The story is perhaps a bit over-long, but is mostly well-paced and moves along quickly except for a few areas.  And the characters are generally well done, with a sense of fullness and depth to them, even the small side characters that too often are just cardboard figures in much contemporary fantasy.  Here they have distinct looks and personalities. <br />  There are a few problems. One is that many of the adventures pass all too quickly.  The book might have been better served by fewer encounters more in depth.  Instead, because of the pacing, it's seldom that one feels any true worry or suspense about the dangers involved because they pass so quickly.  <br />  Another problem is part positive and part negative. Farmer does a nice job of conveying the complexities of the world in showing Jack that very little is all good or all bad:  Olaf and some of the Northmen have a boisterous joy of life and love their (several) wives and (many) children and Jack often finds himself warming to them.  But they also kill wantonly and sometimes indiscriminately, killing woman and babies as well as men defending themselves.  This same dichotomy is true of the trolls who are supposed to be horrid (chase down men or \\"two-footed deer\\" as sport) but also show themselves to be intelligent, warm creatures who show Jack true hospitality.  While this complexity is to be admired as so much fantasy is good vs. evil (all good and all evil), it isn't quite handled smoothly here, pulled out now and then to make the point but never really feeling sincere or natural or ongoing.  Granted, it's a subtle point and it isn't handled horribly, but one wishes for a more deft use of such an important theme. <br />  Finally, the last complain is also somewhat abstract--the book, while serviceable or better in its treatment of plot and character and pace, never grabbed  me. I never felt truly involved with the characters--either truly worried or saddened or angry.  Part of it was the quick pacing.  But there always felt like there should have been more depth to what was happening.  The story reminded me in general terms of Lloyd Alexander's Prydain series.  Both young adult, both follow a young apprentice who must go on a quest (or several), both have a young girl finding herself,both have a bard and a mythic background.  But Alexander's stories had much more of an emotional impact, a much more intense sense of character and danger, a much  more intense importance attached to the events.  Even more so when one considers that all five of Alexander's books would only total a little more than Sea of Trolls.  This is, admittedly, a somewhat unfair comparison as Prydain has now become a true classic in young adult fantasy, but it does give a standard of comparison and if the standard is extremely high, it gives something to aspire to. <br />  Farmer clearly has the ability to plot and create character and her love of story is evident throughout Sea of Trolls.  Maybe a more focused storyline next time might edge her closer to that sense of intensity that sets the truly great fantasy apart from the rest.  Sea of Trolls is pleasant enough reading, but one wishes for a bit more when it's over and done with. <br />	2005-05-29
US	53074803	R2UL6IATFXPDKE	0786715480	938639083	The Italian Secretary: A Further Adventure of Sherlock Holmes	Books	3	4	5	N	N	solid but uninspiring, weakest of recent Holmes trio	Over the past few months, Sherlock Holmes has been resurrected by Michael Chabon (The Final Solution), Mitch Cullin (A Slight Trick of the Mind) and here in The Italian Secretary by Caleb Carr.  I don't know if it says more about the authors or about the subject that Carr's is both the most faithful and the least impressive of the three. <br /> Whereas both Chabon and Cullin give us a Holmes in the nighttime of his life, fading along with the Victorian century, Carr keeps us firmly in the Holmes' world of the canon.  Or at least, I should say he appears to.  I'll leave it to the Sherlockians to discuss the details and whether they do or do not match up.  But for the general reader as opposed to real Baker Street fans, this book is mostly what we expect when we think of Holmes.  He gets a strange missive (this one from his smarter older brother Mycroft--a high up in the Queen's intelligence retinue), heads off with faithful Watson (who narrates this as he did Doyle's), is met with strange occurrences that mystify all (including poor Watson though he is a step ahead of most), and then solves the case via his use of observation and deduction, though Watson as always is a necessary presence if more physically than mentally. <br />  The atypical aspect of this one is the prevalence of ghosts and Holmes' seeming willingness to contemplate the idea that spirituality may play a role in the crime.  Otherwise we're fed a good old diet of Victorian settings:  trains, Scottish castles, English men-at-arms, great lords and not-so-great servants, continental intrigue, British pluck, etc.  <br />  All of which are handled well. As is the mystery for the most part though I could quibble with bits and pieces (but won't as it would involve skirting too close to revealing the mystery).  And while Holmes and Watson seem mostly themselves as I remember them, something at times seems just a bit off. And the side characters seem faithfully akin to Doyle's in the stories, the problem beinghowever that this is a novel and they have the dimensions (or lack of) of a short story character. <br />  In other words, while the book mostly moved along at a decent pace and offered  up a generally adequate read, it never felt like a good read.  Whether it be problems with the characters or the mystery or the resolution scene, it always felt like there was a brake on the story--something holding it back from being as good as it should have been.  In the end, it failed for me a little bit as a Holmes story, and it failed for me a lot as a Carr story (being a fan of his Lazlo Kreizler character from the Alienist and The Angel of Darkness).  It felt more like an exercise than a story, lacking the vibrancy and passion and depth of Carr's own work.  <br />  Interestingly enough, there is an addendum where a representative of the Holmes' estate muses on a possible pairing of Holmes and Kreizler--the one focused more on physicality, the other more on the mind.  I exaggerate only slightly (perhaps not at all), to say I found this few pages worth of speculative essay more interesting and exciting than the previous several hundred pages of mystery.  Like the rep, I hope too that Carr considers such a pairing and would look eagerly forward to reading it.   With Holmes coming to his world rather than vice-versa, perhaps that passion and vividness would come to life. <br />  The Italian Secretary as it is is of only mild interest.  Not a bad book, but a disappointingly pallid one.  Certainly, though they are less mysteries than character studies, The Final Solution and A Slight Trick of the Mind stand as much, much more worthy reads.	2005-05-24
US	53074803	R20SLB9RR0G26M	1582345112	295340622	Confessions of a Teen Sleuth: A Parody	Books	4	9	10	N	N	too long, but fondly funny with a bittersweet edge	A look-back at her life (her real life) by the elderly titian-haired heroine, Confessions of a Teen Sleuth follows Nancy Drew through the decades as she races from crime scene to crime scene in her roadster to solve mysteries.  Along the way and over the years, she marries/divorces Ned, has an ongoing thing for Frank Hardy, is tormented by the seemingly constant presence of nemesis Cherry Ames, interacts with the whole pack of teen (and not so teen) sleuths, finds sleuthing and a stable life don't necessarily mix, and faces her most persistent villain--aging. <br />   Let's get the obvious negative out of the way--the book, slim as it is, is too long, a problem that bedevils a lot of parody.  Yes, the titian-hair jokes, the slim-and-attractive cliche, etc. wear a bit on the reader after a while.  In some ways it might have worked better as a novella or a long short story, or maybe a book with somewhat fewer \\"cases\\".  But shrinking it down would have cost it somewhat its bittersweetness, its sense of accumulated weight and weariness.  And in the end, while some of the jokes go on too long or are too often repeated, it's sort of like how we all forget those seemingly endless unfunny Saturday Night Live skits and remember only the funny highlights.  Long after you'll forget your annoyance at some of the smaller foibles of the book, you'll fondly remember the way it made you laugh out loud throughout. <br />  And if you've read and remember Nancy Drew, or the Hardy Boys, or Tom Swift, or Cherry Ames, or Donna Parker (and a handful of others, including once up-and-coming Encyclopedia Brown reduced to a live-at-home middle-aged sad sack), laugh out loud you will.  A lot.  At the focus on everyone's dress.  At the many titian-hair references.  At the way \\"slim and attractive\\" keeps getting used despite the fact that few are slim and attractive by the end.  At the way people are constantly found \\"tied and gagged\\" or \\"bound and gagged\\".  And on and on. The  book is trulyfunny. <br />   Sometimes the humor misses a bit.  But there's so much there you forgive her the occasional dropped attempt.  And the parody is never vicious.  It's done with fondness and true delight throughout.  Which adds a whole other level. For the book isn't simply a Mad magazine surface parody. Anyone who remembers their youth spent reading Nancy Drew and the others will feel a strong sense of nostalgia and sorrow at the passing of their own youth as paralleled by Nancy's own passing years.  She does what we never want our youthful heroes to do--she ages.  A point made humorously but also sadly by poor 30-yr-old Donna Parker, who still dresses in her camp shorts and refers to herself as a teenager.  And it's this level of fond sadness that would have been lost had Cain gone the easier route of making it a funny story instead of a funny novel (or akin to a novel).   It would have been easy to savage Nancy Drew and all the other teen books many of us grew up on.  Instead, Cain allows us to laugh at them but in the same manner in which we laugh at the hapless actions of our closest friends.  Strongly recommended.	2005-05-22
US	53074803	R3GVOG5WD7MH3D	0385513283	284136184	A Slight Trick of the Mind	Books	5	104	110	N	N	Moving, complex, mesmerizing work	Mitch Cullin's A Slight Trick of the Mind has a lot in common with Michael Chabon's The Final Solution. Both  have at their center an elderly, somewhat frail Sherlock Holmes.  Both present Holmes in isolation, outside of the familiar haunts and relationships we recall so fondly from Doyle's work.  Both have him living into a time period that calls into question his reliance on logic and intellect.  Most importantly, each, in its own way, offers up one of the best literary pleasures a reader is likely to experience this year.      Cullin places Holmes in his 93rd year, retired to Sussex with his bees and his housekeeper and her adolescent son.  While Holmes has grown somewhat frail physically (he needs two canes, lots of rest), more distressing to him is the obvious loss of his mental faculties.  He finds himself entering rooms for unknown reasons, forgetting near-events and losing himself in long-past ones, falling asleep suddenly in the midst of something.  Even more confusing, he finds that his renowned logic and aloofness seems to be more and more capitulating to the long-buried emotional part of himself, particularly in three-fold fashion:  in his reaction to the father-worship of the housekeeper's adolescent son, in his memory of a decades-old infatuation with a woman from one of his old cases, and in his response to a Japanese man who seeks answers to why his father long ago abandoned his family at the seeming urging of a younger Holmes.     The story unfolds in slow fashion, slipping quietly, sadly, smoothly between the three storylines.  With Holmes, we sorrow in present time over his slipping acuity, mourn the passing of that legendary intellect, wince at how easily he forgets, loses himself in time and place and deed.  We mourn as well the passing of an age where reason and logic could hold such sway as it did in Holmes' hands (a topic more directly focused on in Chabon's book).  Faced as he is during his trip to Japan with the devastation wrought by the first atomic bomb--a devastation not only of life and place but also of spirit, Holmes begins to question the place of logic and reason in such a world.     Where then can he find solace, if at all?  One answer of course is his bees, in their ordered humming generational lives.  But he is less and less involved in their actual keeping, and so we see the seemingly cold Holmes slowly opening up to the possibilities of human connection in his interaction with young Rodger, the housekeeper's son whom he trains to care for the bees as he no longer can.  And through Rodger we learn of an earlier case of Holmes where for a while the machine-like intellect was overrun by a strange infatuation with a woman, one that continues even now.  And we see him thinking not rationally but emotionally as he ponders what to do about the Japanese man who seeks answers Holmes does not have.  Cullin has taken Holmes and made him human, with all its potential for rapture and ruin.     Through these perilous waters of fading memory and slipping mind, of human emotion and weakness, of past and approaching mortality, Holmes and the reader move slowly, quietly, painfully toward an ending that nearly drowns the heart.  Highly, highly recommended	2005-05-22
US	53074803	R176F9XZEC8K0K	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	4	17	17	N	N	4 but a surprisingly weak one	Never Let Me go is a difficult book, I'd actually say, impossible book to review without discussing what isn't revealed fully until almost a 100 pages in.   That's not really such as problem as some pretty heavy-handed references to the \\"surprise\\" come in the first few pages, many readers will figure it out in the first few dozen, and Ishiguro himself says he has no problem with reviewers revealing the premise as he \\"wasn't writing a mystery.\\" But for those who prefer not to know, I'll keep the next paragraph spoiler-free then skip a line and give a spoiler alert before continuing. <br />   Never Let Me Go is narrated by 31-year-old Kathy H, a soon-to-retire \\"carer\\" who looks back at her time at Hailsham, a strange and isolated English private school where she lived her entire youth. Moving back and forth in time, she revisits the school's strange rules and traditions, the oddly reticent live-in teachers or \\"Guardians\\", and especially the relationship she had with Tommy and Ruth--her two best friends. The book's strengths are its clear, clean prose; its muted voice, its shifting back and forth in time, its steadily accreting sense of poignancy.  Its weaknesses are several scenes that would read much more tritely were they not bolstered by the weight conveyed due to the as-yet-to-be-revealed-in-this-review premise, a sometimes annoying repetition of qualifiers and reminders that memory is not 100 percent, and a sense that the world created hasn't really been fully thought out or fully stocked.  The book can be moving, but lags in some places and annoys in others.  And that's the vague review you get when the premise can't be discussed:  a mildly pleasing book that disappoints somewhat in the end.  Anyone who doesn't want the premise revealed should stop here. <br />Spoilers below: <br />   It doesn't take long for the reader to figure there's something weird about Hailsham and it isn't that far into the book that the main premise is revealed, that Kathy, Tommy, Ruth and the other \\"students\\" are clones created to become organ donors.  Kathy has been a \\"carer\\" (for the clones who donate) for over a decade and is soon to become a donor herself.  She has reunited recently with Ruth and Tommy, both of whom became donors much earlier and both of whom are moving steadily towards their \\"completion\\" (death) which usually happens after the fourth donation.   <br />    The premise is what gives the book the added weight some of its scenes desperately need.  On the surface level, the book is a not-so-original \\"my life at boarding school story\\".  Kathy recounts the usual angst of adolescence:  the fear of being isolated, cliques, the exploration of sexuality, the cattiness of friends, the way friendships shift between rivalry and loyalty (especially when there is a triangle involved), the dominant girl and the more passive girl, etc.  All of these scenes are handled deftly and smoothly, but not particularly originally.  There isn't much spark to them, nothing we haven't seen a thousand times before. <br />   What rescues the book from cliche or from triteness of course is the chilling ever-presence of the premise.  These are not normal pre-teens and teens. The fact that they are clones, that they are basically farm animals bred to be slaughtered, that they will almost all \\"complete\\" at a relatively young age (Kathy at 31 is pretty old in comparison to most it seems)--all of this adds weight to each would-otherwise-be-trivial scene.  When Kathy talks about how the kids \\"collected\\" small, basically worthless items to mark their individuality, it's nothing more than all pre-teens do, except of course that in this situation it is, and one can't help but feel the echo of similar behaviors in the concentration camps. The same is true for the mysterious focus at Hailsham on producing art, on being creative.  One of the earliest signs of something amiss is that the best kid at football is not honored for his athleticism but mocked for his lack of artistic talent. <br />   The guardians have full knowledge of the truth and it is slowly revealed to the students,  but timed Kathy later suspects so that they were never really old enough to fully internalize what they were being told about their fate.  Some adults show revulsion toward them, some pity, some regret, some anger.  <br />   Among the three kids, Ruth is the dominant one, Kathy the more passive, and Tommy is caught in between, becoming Ruth's boyfriend but also clearly pining for  Kathy, who as a young woman would like to return that affection but doesn't.  Why she doesn't, what happens when the three reunite as adults, what they further learn about Hailsham are all points better left undiscussed, as they drive much of the plot in the last quarter of the book and they, at least, are meant to be somewhat suspenseful or mysterious. <br />   As mentioned above, the strengths of the book are its prose and its premise.  As one expects from Ishiguro, the writing is sharp and efficient, smoothly tailored to its intended effect.  The premise permeates the book and is disturbing not simply for its horror but also for the triviality of its presentation.  This is no horrific dystopic vision like 1984 or the Handmaid's Tale.  What chills here is the banality of the presentation, of the setting and the seemingly trivial activities of the children/teens. <br />  This is both strength, however, and weakness, for it's a very fine line Ishiguro is trying to walk, and if the banality of the conflicts and dialogues and \\"crises\\" serve to make the premise more chilling, they are also banal and for me at least they never completely escaped that banality.  I see the chilling effect, I understand it, but a part of me kept reacting to the triviality of yet another teen angst book with two teen girls liking the same boy, with boys ganging up on another boy, with girls being mean to each other, etc. <br />  Kathy's voice was also somewhat problematic for me for it was a bit too muted, too matter-of-fact, at least until the very end.  And there was the annoying frequency with which she would qualify her memories by saying something along the lines of \\"of course, memory isn't failsafe\\", or \\"Ruth (or Tommy) didn't remember it this way\\", or \\"I thought this was how it happened but now I find I'm unsure . . \\" and so on.  I didn't mind the idea so much as how often it was thrown at me. <br />   Plot-wise, the ending seemed a bit forced--the search for a particular truth and the way a lot of information is revealed at the end in monologue form by an old woman in a room, much of the \\"mystery\\" summed up in a few pages of pure speech. <br />   But by far the largest problem I had was how the whole world premise felt only half-baked.  While the self-contained world of Hailsham was well-presented, there were a lot of nagging questions with regard to what was happening elsewhere.  The clones move freely in and out of society once they graduate from Hailsham, but there is little reaction to or from them with regard to \\"normals\\".  Where are the inevitable extremists from either side--those who would protect them from their fate and those who would want to destroy them?  Who are the organs for?  Why does no one rebel, take a car and just drive away?  How does nobody try to get word to the kids at Hailsham about what they really are and what their future is?  Ishiguro has one Guardian break down and hint/reveal but it's handled more sentimentally than with any anger or sense of rebellion.  One has to imagine there would be others who would take  more active roles.  Not that they had to be on-stage but rumors of such things, brief references to them would make the world seem more real.  Even Tommy, who is noted for his frighteningly extreme temper, never rebels.  The analysis that his temper was a subconscious reaction to the sensed truth of his life--\\"maybe on a level you knew before any of us\\"-- might explain 8-yr-old Tommy throwing a tantrum but not why 13-yr-old Tommy doesn't do worse.  Or why 20-yr-old Tommy doesn't just take off once he's free of Hailsham's restrictions. <br />  In the end, the half-nature of the created world, the muted narrative voice, and the surface triviality of the kids' relationships combined to bleed the book of some of its power.  Not all of it.  As I've said, there is a sense of chill throughout, and the end is quite moving, as is the book as a whole. But if the book is greater than its parts, it isn't so by much.  Recommended, but not with a lot of excitement. <br />	2005-05-19
US	53074803	R3K7L98O0LHQJE	1582343861	780847790	Aspirin: The Remarkable Story of a Wonder Drug	Books	4	7	7	N	N	good history, slightly overstated in places, well-written	Aspirin is follows aspirin through its birth (Ancient Sumer and/or Egypt using willow bark as medicinal treatment), childhood (purification, chemical synthesis), adolescence (the race for monopoly and profit), adulthood (most popular drug on the planet), mid-life crisis (advent of new drugs such as Tylenol and ibuprofen), and its sudden discovery that there is life after middle-age (use as heart medicine and its possible use for a variety of other medicinal purposes). <br />  The story is well-paced for the  most part and the writing is strong.  It's always clear, even when explaining the chemistry, and Jeffreys knows when enough is enough and how to move fluidly from one stage of development to the next.   He also does an excellent job of making this as much about people as about chemistry, offering up small but memorable characterizations of the many people involved in aspirin's development, beginning with a young Egyptologist who bought a \\"found\\" papyrus that turned out to be the largest medical reference of ancient Egypt. <br />   Sometimes in his enthusiasm for his subject Jeffreys may overstate aspirin's influence a bit, such as its historical role in World War II and the Nazi govt. or its efficacy during the flu pandemic of the early 20th century or still-to-be-proven uses such as a cancer fighting drug.  But none of these are way out of line and they happen so rarely, and are so reasonable that they detract hardly at all from the book's pleasure. <br />  Personally, I found the ancient history and its early history the most interesting and compelling, while the sections on German Bayer's attempts to corner the market and its later influence in Nazism to be a little overlong.  Not that they weren't interesting in their own right, just that they could have been cut a bit more.  Again, a small quibble. <br /> In fact, there's very little to complain about here.  An interesting read, a quick one, a clear explanation of science and the intersection of science/medicine/capitalism, an enjoyable examination of scientists and inventors little known to the vast majority of us.  Recommended.	2005-05-09
US	53074803	R1EGGHVNTFQMSF	0312306059	940322570	The Path of Minor Planets: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	quietly unfolding story gathers you in, strong 4	Path of Minor Planets is Greer's first novel, coming before Confessions of Max Tivoli, which has garnered more attention and praise.  Personally, I preferred Path to Tivoli, finding the writing equally strong but the story even better. <br /> Path opens with a group of astronomers and their students gathering in 1965 to watch the return of Comet Swift (named after the organizer of the gathering).  Here we're introduced to all the  major characters at their varying stages of life-established professors, ambitious/nervous grad students, young children, people at the end or beginning of marriages, etc.  During the viewing, they all witness the accidental death of a young island boy and the story moves on from there, using the return of the comet to structure the novel. <br />  The time structure works well as we jump ahead in these lives to see how they've changed.  While the comet's cycle forms the novel's backbone, Greer doesn't hold to it slavishly, allowing himself in each cycle's section to meander back and forth over the intervening years.  Along the way we are treated to the events, both minor and major, in the characters' lives and the way their lives, like the comet and earth, keep circling each other.  Again, due to the difference in ages, there is a lot of variety here, as some characters find first flush of love disappearing, some find their career ambitions thwarted, others move into the twilight of their lives while some into the energetic adolescence.  Narrative perspective shifts among the characters and Greer does an excellent job capturing this variety of voice and tone. The characters sound authentic across the spectrum of age and gender and personality, and this authenticity continues throughout the novel as they move into various life stages.   <br />  The story is layered and gently, quietly unfolds in the voices of its characters, never lapsing into cliche or predictability.  The characters are complex creatures that are likable at times but notat others, admirable one moment, insufferable another.  In other words, they're like real people. <br />  Stylistically, the book is generally strong, though Greer has a noticeable habit of swinging for the fence for too many lines.  Metaphors and similes are especially frequent and while some are just wonderful, the sheer quantity of them means others are a bit clumsy or contradictory.  And at times, after reading a string of them, you want to yell at him to just say the dress was white, the hat red and move the damn story along, but noticeable as this is, it doesn't detract much from the book's pleasures. <br />   There isn't a lot of action here; some will no doubt find it a bit slow, but give it time. The end effect of the style, structure, and characterization is a moving, affecting work that slowly, smoothly pulls you in and envelops you. In the end, you're sad to let go of these characters, always a good sign.  Very strongly recommended.	2005-05-07
US	53074803	R3HDIZVS6R3TK2	0152051236	58624997	Gifts	Books	5	64	66	N	N	Leguin's usual mastery of story and style	There are lots of reasons to like a good LeGuin novel--her spare prose, her sharpness of description, her ease of storytelling, but in simple terms, when LeGuin writes well (nearly always), it boils down to the fact that reading becomes bare unadorned pleasure.  Pleasure at its purest and simplest.  And that is the gift of this newest book.    The backstory is pretty simple--families living in the Uplands have hereditary magical abilities or \\"gifts\\" (one type to a family) that can and usually are employed to harm: gifts of \\"unmaking\\" (killing/destroying), of \\"calling\\" (calling animals--used to call them to be killed), of \\"twisting\\" (maiming things and people), of \\"wasting\\" (cursing with a slowly fatal illness).  The clans feud back and forth over land, cattle, etc. yet  must also stay on terms to keep interbreeding as the gifts are strongest when bred true through the family. The description of the clans reminded me of old Celtic tales of cattle-thieving etc.  Fans of Irish/Scottish old tales of Lloyd Alexander's Prydain series might see some similarities).    Into this world come two youths raised as friends since childhood.  Orrec's family has the gift of unmaking (using the eyes and hands) and there is a lot of pressure on him early when his gift takes its time to manifest itself, possibly because his mother is an ungifted \\"lowlander\\" who left the lowlands to wed his father after a raid.  When his gift does appear, it seems to be \\"wild\\", uncontrollable and a danger to those around him.  At his own urging, Orrec is blindfolded to protect those he loves.  Along with its personal impact, this also has larger ripples:  on his budding romance with his childhood friend Gry, on his relationship with his mother and father, on his family's relationship with a bordering family whose aggressively greedy leader, Ogge Drum, threatens both Gry and Orrec's homes.    Gry, meanwhile, who has the talent to call animals, has decided she has no desire to do so if it simply leads totheir death.  She refuses to join the hunts and calls into question the whole underlying theory and application of the gifts.    This is a slim story, yet works on many levels.  The simple plot is effectively suspenseful and well-paced:  will Orrec remain blindfolded, will he and Gry marry, will Gry be forced to use her talent, will they withstand Ogge Drum, etc.  The deeper stories are even more effective.  The relationships between two adolescents and their parents as they try to find their own way, their own identities.  The changing relationship between the two of them as they shift from friends to perhaps more, from powerless to powerful, from passive to active, from adolescent to adult.  The larger issues of power and restraint.  None of these are handled in ham-handed fashion; all of them are subtly and nicely interwoven to add pleasure and complexity.    The style is typical LeGuin. Spare, poetic, vivid.  There isn't a word out of place and she makes five words do what most need fifteen for.  Some current authors of those bloated epic fantasy tomes could take some lessons here that sometimes less really is more.      Characters are three-dimensional, complex, sharply depicted.  And there is an ease to the whole tale that is signature LeGuin, a born storyteller.  Her narrator, Orrec, is himself a lover of tales (one of the more tragic effects of his blinding is his loss of the books his mother made him) as well as, he comes to learn, a teller of them.      And finally, the culture itself is clearly laid out (despite not spending three hundred pages on \\"world-building\\") in logical, understandable fashion with a true sense of authenticity.   Normally at this point I'd spend at least a few lines on the few minor flaws that were overcome by a book's larger strengths (if I liked the book).  But to be honest, I really would have to strain to come up with even some minor flaws.  I'm not sure I'd come up with any even then.   Highly, highly recommended.  It's the sort of book one wishes there were more of and that more writers, especially in this genre of fantasy (as overarching a genre as that is) would emulate.	2005-05-05
US	53074803	R1WYPJ0V62QJ2Q	1595140220	351662274	Magic or Madness	Books	3	17	22	N	N	strong 3--strengths outweigh few minor flaws, one major one	Magic or Madness does a nice job of plunking us down in mid-story, giving us a sense of early momentum that seldom pauses the rest of the way.  Reason Cansino has been kept on the move in the Australian bush for most of her 15 years, in order, her mother says, to keep her safe from Esmeralda, Reason's dangerous grandmother.  Serafina, Reason's mother, has filled Reason's mind with stories of Serafina being held captive as a young child in Esmeralda's cellar, of Esmeralda's animal sacrifices and dark rites all in the name magic, which she impresses upon Reason, doesn't exist. But now, having seemingly gone from simply strange to truly crazy, Serafina is  Institutionalized in a Sydney mental hospital and can no longer protect Reason, who as the book opens is being taken to Esmeralda's house by the \\"witch\\" herself.    This sense of coming into the story mid-stream does a good job of adding a sense of history to the ensuing story, as well as a feeling of suspenseful urgency.  Her mother's tales weren't completely true, Reason finds out early enough (the house for instance is bright and airy rather than gothically dark), but neither are they completely false (something is buried in the corner of the cellar).    In an attempt to run away, Reason walks through a door and somehow ends up in New York City.  Magic, therefore, does exist, and its existence, its effects on her family and herself, its temptations and dangers, all play a major role from then on.  Along the way to trying to learn some answers, Reason meets several youths of her same age who may or may not practice magic and may or may not be her allies.  The adults she comes into contact with do practice magic, but once again, their motivations and trustworthiness are unclear.     The strengths of the book are many.  It is tautly constructed with a quick, urgent pace.  Shifts in narration among the youthful characters and a third-person narrator add suspense and lend some variety to the voices telling the story.The young people are quickly but sharply characterized and mostly have a sense of authenticity in their actions and language.  The magic is low-level through most of the story, acting mostly as an underlying sense of menace and mystery until the very end, where it makes a more pronounced entrance.  The main storyline is pretty straightforward, but the unclear agendas of the adults, and their use of the children to achieve those agendas, makes for a nice complexity.  Not only is one unsure as to who exactly is \\"good\\" and \\"evil\\", by the end those terms have been shown to be gross over-simplifications.  Life is seldom so simple and neither is what is going on this book (the first of a projected trilogy).    Most of the flaws are relatively minor.  The adult characters are so far more shallowly depicted, but Esmeralda deepens toward the end and one assumes/hopes that will continue in book two.  Some of the plot events are a bit contrived or make use of hard-to-believe coincidence.  But these are easily overlooked.    The largest and most annoying flaw, and the one that is consistently noticeable throughout (thus dropping the book from a four to a three) is the inconsistency with regard to just how sophisticated Reason is. At times she speaks like a never-been-out-of-the-bush-knows-almost-nothing fifteen-year-old; at other times she displays a jarringly normal response to events.  For instance, she might compare something to an Escher painting on one page and then two pages later not recognize snow for what it is for several long minutes.  There are many examples of this and they unfortunately did mar the reading experience pretty regularly for me, though some might find it less annoying, and maybe especially the younger audience the book is aimed at.    Overall, the series (and one will have to continue the series for the story to hold together) is off to a good start and despite its flaws, I recommend it fairly strongly.	2005-05-05
US	53074803	R25HEXGFID0K50	1400043646	793044180	Paradise	Books	3	14	14	N	N	great style evokes more literary appreciation than feeling	Paradise is one of those books I wanted to enjoy more than I did.  Stylistically, it's simply fantastic-the language, the poetic phrasing, the original descriptions and metaphors, the structure and its allusions to the stations of the cross are all evidence of a prose stylist at the top of her craft.  Much of the writing is simply gorgeous.  But unfortunately it all felt to little purpose to me.  The whole was less than the sum of its parts.    One expects a bit of distance from a book whose main character and narrator is a drunk.  There's the inherent distance of not really understanding what that entails (beyond the stock cliches which Kennedy does a fine job of avoiding), the distance of willful repulsion (\\"who would or could live like that?\\"), and the narrative distance of having a story communicated by someone who slips in and out of time and who is often attempting (sometimes successfully, sometimes not) to anesthetize herself.       But there was more than that operating here and though I can't put my finger on just why, I never felt really pulled in by Hannah's story, never compelled by either the sorrows of her life (the fall from middle-class grace, the on-and-off love affair with a fellow drunk, the on-and-off affair with gainful employment or detoxification, etc.) or its accordant joys (the drink obviously, the aforementioned love affair, the recognition that her family still somehow loves her).  More and more I found myself appreciating not what I was reading but how it was being communicated.     The book never really took off for me and then noticeably slowed past the two-thirds point.  It seemed over long by then and somewhat repetitive, even if that repetitiveness was part of the point.  And since we usually know how these things go, there wasn't much suspense or much to compel interest with regard to the two major storylines--her affair with a Robert, a drunken dentist with issues beyond the drinking-- and the various attempts at detox.  The stations of the cross references were interesting in a literary fashion (though a bit too blunt at times), but again, never seemed to add much to the story beyond that and so felt more crafted, more artificial, than part of the natural story.     In the end, it's impossible not to appreciate Kennedy's talent, but I found it nearly as impossible to care much for its use here.  If I were to recommend a moving book about a few drunks, I'd much more highly recommend Ironweed by William Kennedy, who also displayed a flair for language but wove for me a much more human story from it.	2005-04-30
US	53074803	R1RD9V03RKC594	0345457749	500826137	Market Forces	Books	3	6	10	N	N	silly premise, bit muddled and overly long but a decent read	Market Forces lacks much of what makes Morgan's Altered Carbon and Fallen Angels such great books--a strong sense of society, sharp detail, sense of voice, a darkly comic strain of humor, and a restless energy that drives the reader forward.  Forces, on the other hand, begins with a pretty silly premise (corporate execs move up the ladder via road rage a la Deathrace meets Rollerball for those old enough to recall those movies) that's pretty easy to dismiss as a necessary starting point and then move on from. What hurts the novel isn't its premise, but the execution of the premise.  The whole societal structure never really feels fully thought out or communicated--either in the small business culture, the larger society of England, or the world as a whole.  We're told how things run, but never really given much reason to believe them or feel them naturally. <br />  While the main character, Chris Faulkner, is nicely complex: we see him gradually sinking into the kill-or-be-killed corporate mentality and his corresponding qualms of conscience, he too seems to be lacking a bit into dimensionality.  His arguments seem more a novelist's arguments than a character's feelings at times, and some of the later-revealed motivations come across as a bit contrived.  His complexity, however, his back-and-forth responses to the society he moves in, makes up for that most of the time. <br /> The satire is pretty self-evident, at times too much so, but it's clearly meant to be a bit over the top and if the reader doesn't have quite the fun with it Morgan does, it does make for an enjoyable read.  It would have been more enjoyable, though, had the book been cut down somewhat; it's too long by a good 50-100 pages and drags a bit in places.  Never enough to make you put the book down, but enough to notice and wish he'd cut a bit.  Some of the black humor from his earlier books would have helped as well. <br />  The storyline itself is pretty clear and keeps the reader interested in several parallel plots:  attempts on Chris' life, whether he will stay at his job, problems with his marriage, events in former Colombia, etc.  Morgan seemed to have some ambivalence about how much he wanted to reveal one of the major villains; the character is pretty telegraphed but at times the story is written as if it's supposed to be more mysterious.  But this is a minor quibble and never gets in the way of the story.  And Chris' \\"love\\" life is handled a bit shallowly, but again, a minor quibble. <br />  In the end, Market Forces could be described as somewhat disappointing in comparison to earlier works, but since the intent is different here, perhaps that's an unfair comparison.  On its own, it stands as a decent read, fun if too obvious, interesting if a bit shallow, a relatively quick read though too long.  There are much better books out there, several by this same author, but Market Forces will satisfy most in adequate if not exhilarating fashion.	2005-04-22
US	53074803	R1ACIFDWGBEDXQ	0385512171	841350012	The Disappointment Artist: Essays	Books	3	2	3	N	N	hard to connect much until the end	The Disappointment Artist is, as one usually expects of any collection, a bit of a mixed bag.  The problem I had with it was that for me, the best essays, the most moving and most universal ones, came at the close and so the book, though slim, was a bit of a struggle to get through.   The essays are a mix of memoir and critical book and film review, and a blend of both to look at Lethem's influences over the years.      It will come as no surprise to Lethem fans that comic book were one such influence and they take up most of one essay and appear in several others.  Another essay details his passion over the Searchers, another looks at the films of John Cassavettes (the most strictly critical essay),  One on his viewing of Star Wars 21 times has more to do with young Lethem and his mother's impending death then the movie itself. While it has some powerful moments, the essay as a whole is strangely aloof.  This was my reaction to most of the essays. Part of it certainly having to deal with my lack of knowledge of several of his topics (the searchers, Cassavettes), but even those topics I am strongly familiar with (comic books, Star Wars), the essays never connected for me. I never felt Lethem fully universalized the experience for me nor did he fully personalize it except in rare moments, so I was caught in this strange area between--not fully caught up in the topic nor fully caught up in the writer's feelings about the topic.  For that reason, the first half of the book was a struggle, not particularly compelling and somewhat slow.  Things changed in the latter half as more of Lethem began to appear in Lives of the Bohemians. The Beards, the last piece, was by far my favorite.    Fans of Lethem will recognize his influences and those who share his interests will probably enjoy this book much more than I did.  For others, though it may destroy the internal structure of the collection, (since most of these were published beforehand that isn't such a big deal), you mayfind it an easier start to begin \\"13 1977 21\\" the essay on Star Wars and then move to The Beards or Bohemians.  Mixed recommendation.	2005-04-22
US	53074803	R16OVG449XFS06	0439416604	343516902	The Game Of Sunken Places (The Norumbegan Quartet)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	bit muddled in  both character and story, low 3	Game of Sunken Places has at its core several relatively humdrum concepts:  a boardgame that plays for real, a hidden kingdom, two friends (one timid, one outgoing), a race to save the (or a) world.  This isn't so bad since so much fantasy works with the same basic materials. The question is whether the author transcends the familiar and here the answer tends to be no.   <br />  The story follows a pair of thirteen-year-old friends, Gregory and Brian, as they go up to Vermont to visit Uncle Max (not really related) and cousin Prudence.  Tension is set from the start by a surprisingly dark intro piece set at Max's.  Once the boys arrive, they become quickly embroiled in playing the game, or, as it's referred to by everyone, The Game,  the board version of which they found in the old nursery. <br />  The boys must solve riddles; avoid near-fatal run-ins with their seeming opponent Jack; deal with trolls, ogres, elves; explore hidden cities and sunken rivers and so on.  The game play is somewhat jumbled and all too arbitrary, with little sense of import or menace despite the various pronouncements of impending doom.  The boys wander from oddly named place to oddly named place with no real sense of meaning, even at the end when all is explained.  The two  boys are also a bit muddled, not sharply enough defined. The same can be said of all the characters save one, the troll, who stands out as the only character of any depth in the book. <br />  In the end, neither the story nor the characters offer much of a compelling nature and while Games isn't a bad book, it doesn't rise to the level of much that is out there to read.  Therefore not recommended.	2005-04-17
US	53074803	R306NVCKBSI7IJ	1565123875	765418048	Purple Hibiscus	Books	4	3	4	N	N	moving and dark, complex characters, strong 4	Purple Hibiscus is a strong coming-of-age novel set in Nigeria and narrated by fifteen-year-old Kambili, a young girl beset by family turmoil/violence inside the home and political turmoil/violence outside.   <br />   Kambili's father is a \\"big man\\"-owner of factories,  publisher of a staunchly independent newspaper, philanthropist, and a pillar of the local Catholic faith, financial and otherwise.  Inside the home, however, he is a rigidly religious tyrant who uses violence to keep his family in line, regularly beating Kambili, her mother, and her older brother.  This cycle of internal violence, outward philanthropy is disrupted by two events--the political coup that causes all sort of social/economic disruption and creates an effective background of constant menace and tension, and a trip by Kambili and her brother to a widowed aunt's home, where she sees what a \\"regular\\" family looks like.  As the book progresses, tension and violence increase on each front.  Kambili's father's newspaper becomes a target of political intimidation and serious violence as it stands up against the new government. Meanwhile, Kambili's father himself turns more and more violent as his sister's influence begins to cause cracks of disobedience to appear in his family. <br />  The voicing by Kambili is wonderfully done, made up of quiet observations detailing her fears and doubts.  Is this how people talk, she wonders?  How do they find the courage?  The words?  But her words carry the novel through the scenes of  domestic violence, of political turmoil, of a young girl's first crush (on a young priest she meets while at her aunt's), of a young boy's first few steps into defiance and adulthood (her brother Jaja), of a clash of cultures and religions, of death.  <br />  While Kambili and her narration are the strong part of the novel, the other characters more than carry their weight.  Each of them, with the possible exception of the mother, is sharply drawn and full of life.  Her aunt, her cousin, the priest, her grandfather-all of them are full characters as opposed to simple role players meant to move plot along.  This especially includes her father, who could have been simply (and simplistically) portrayed as a monster.  He is, but he is also much more.  He shows true courage in his willingness to take on the government.  He shows true compassion in his willingness to spend his money on those less fortunate.  He is a man of faith.  And yet.  He is ruthless in his authoritarianism with regard to his family, refusing to see his father or to let his grandchildren spend more than fifteen minutes a few times a year with him.  And his violence is truly shocking.  Parts of this book are difficult to read, though the author never lingers for long, never exploits the violence for cheap emotional effect.  What makes it even more chilling is how coolly rational the father is when he turns violent. These are not sudden emotional outbursts of an ignorant man but the rationalized discipline of an intelligent man who truly thinks he is doing what he must for the sake of his family (which of course can be read in a broader, more allegorical sense). <br />  The book marches toward its end and if it is often dark, the darkness is leavened by some  humor, some warmth, and the small steps Kambili and her brother take toward maturation and toward breaking the chains of their home.  The end, as one would expect, is not a simple, \\"they all lived happily ever after\\" ending.  But it is also not totally dark, or even mostly dark.  It is, however, realistic. <br />    Finally, while the book focuses on the internal more than the external, Hibiscus has a wonderfully vivid sense of place, conveyed not in long sweeping passages of description but in the small tiny details of day to day life and interaction--the food being cut, the scents in the air, the logistical obstacles involved in taking a drive, etc.  Nigeria is communicated rather than described. <br />  An excellent debut novel, strongly recommended. <br /> <br />	2005-04-16
US	53074803	RWSOE8AWZUA0H	1594200386	705188160	The Geographer's Library	Books	2	21	25	N	N	surprisingly and disappointingly weak in many aspects	Seldom has a title engendered such anticipation for me.  I love maps and book about maps--the book is about a geographer.  I love books and books about books--the book is about a library.  Well, suffice to say that there is no geography, no maps, no library (of any note) and no books (of any import).  I could have lived with all that had there been something to cling to:  sharp characterization, a compelling story, poetic language, inventive plot, vivid settings.  But sad to say, and somewhat surprisingly given the author's pedigree (though admittedly, and all too noticeably, not in fiction).    There are three basic threads to Library:  the death of a strange professor in small Connecticut college town sparks the interest of the young reporter assigned to write the obituary who is subsequently drawn further into a web of odd events, menacing characters, threatening notes and symbols, and strange coincidences.  This present-time main storyline is broken up by a detailed and fabulistic catalog of alchemical instruments all stolen centuries ago from the title \\"geographer\\"--the historical Al-Idrisi.  The final thread is made up of a group of independent tales, most of which are set in central Asia/parts of the former Soviet Union each of which shows one of the instruments being tracked down and violently regained over the intervening time period of their theft from Al-Idrisi's library in the mid-twelfth century to the current time.    The best part of the book, beside the title, is the premise. From there, unfortunately, it goes steadily downhill.  The characters range mostly from hard-to-believe to cliche to poorly drawn and include a gruff editor with a heart of gold and his lovable pretending-to-be-a-scold wife, the small town cop with a drinking/attitude problem, the quirky talks-too-much about trivial things columnist, the nosy old female neighbor who all but chases the lovable cub reporter away from the pretty young girl with a straw broom, and so on.  Even worsethan some of their hard to believe behaviors or their cliched foundations is the way they pop up with skills necessary to move the book along--one is able to read the right languages, another is an expert locksmith, one conveniently has connections to federal law enforcement, another to international law enforcement.     The poor characterization might have been saved by an exciting and compelling story, but there just isn't one there.  Yes, the professor's death is mysterious, but so much of what surrounds it is implausible, or is dragged out beyond the suspension of disbelief that it doesn't really hold much interest, especially as one can be pretty sure it has something to do with those alchemical instruments that keep interrupting the present-day story.  It isn't too hard to see where that's going.     The independent stories vary in their quality of style and interest, but eventually become tedious, not in themselves but in their pattern, which quickly becomes predictable--a meeting is set up between current possessor and seeker, some sort of deception is involved, seeker violently gains possession, former owner not so lucky.  The catalog sections have a nice feel to them at first,  but also begin to pale after a while, and since they seem relatively arbitrary in comparison to what is going on in present-day, and because they are slowing the pace of an already-not-so-compelling storyline, one becomes tempted to read the later ones as quickly as possible.     Finally, the resolution is just wholly implausible. And the structure, a \\"looking-back\\" on events by the cub reporter, is way too clumsy.  The reason given for this whole tale as told is painfully contrived, as are the last twenty or thirty pages.    I know there will be a lot of comparisons to other \\"puzzle\\" books that delve into history, ritual and/or libraries and texts, such as the Da Vinci Code and Rule of Four.  Personally I thought both of those books were terrible for different reasons from each other and from this one, but I'd relegate all three books to the  better left unread pile.  I'd say Codex was somewhat better than all three, and Shadow of the Wind the standout book of this \\"genre\\".  As for the Geographer's Library, I can't recommend it.  But oh, that title . . .	2005-04-09
US	53074803	R5UEEU535JPUW	1931520054	344209956	Kalpa Imperial: The Greatest Empire That Never Was	Books	4	9	9	N	N	reads well in multiple sittings, drags a bit, strong voice	If  Italo Calvino,Ursula Leguin (the translator), and Fritz Leiber collaborated on a collection,  you might get something like Kalpa Imperial, a set of eleven stories dipping in and out of the grand and lengthy history of the Empire.  This is not a narrative fantasy--the stories, though some may refer to others, mostly stand on their own, and they can skip entire ages of the Empire's life.  Nor is it \\"fantasy\\" as often meant in today's publishing world. There is little actual magic, few quests, no single epic story, and the world building is more quietly delightful than immensely detailed.   <br />   The stories are all told by a storyteller (also an important character in one of the later stories) who often interjects his own comments on the tale, on tale-telling, on history, or even on the thick-headedness of those listening.  The storyteller's voice and the oral  history feel of the book are two of the better aspects of the work. <br />  Style is another.  The language is simply delightful, poetic in places, simple in others, spare in others.  It's always hard to tell with a translation, of course, but one has the feel that Le Guin and Gorodischer could have been separated at birth since there is an ease and naturalness to the language that often is lacking in translated works. <br />   The stories themselves, as mentioned, work independently while also conveying the cyclical rise and fall of the Empire and its wide variety of emperors and empresses.  The stories cover all sorts--good and bad and a mixture of both (and even better, bad who did good and good who did bad), old and young, male and female, lusty and prudish, wise and foolish. They're all here, sitting on their throne deservedly or not. <br />  Many of the tales deal with power, acquisition of, use and sometimes abuse of, loss of.  Some work nicely as fables or moral tales, some as allegory, some as political/social commentary.   <br />  It's hard to fault any particular story, but read in a single sitting, they do tend to blur a bit toward the end, feel a bit too similar.  And the  book starts to lose its sense of delight.  My guess is that this is as much a factor of reading style as writing style, and that if one read the book over a longer period of time, dipping in to taste a few stories then putting it down, it would go down much better. <br />  It's an unusual work, not as strange as Calvino, but it has a nice echo of Invisible Cities to it.  It's not as magical as Le Guin's better known work, but it has a similar style and voice to her quieter, more anthropological works, such as Orsinian Tales.  And if the Empire isn't stalked by demons and sorcerers as in Leiber, it has the same feel of heavy  history to it.  And the writing, as mentioned, is first rate.  Recommended, but with the advise not to rush through it. Maybe read it concurrently with something else so the stories have time to linger then fade just a little. <br />	2005-04-08
US	53074803	R1M03ENVEL7CSU	1565847830	778169426	Consuming Kids: The Hostile Takeover of Childhood	Books	4	3	4	N	N	clearly written, well-documented	It's hard to imagine someone picking this book up who already doesn't think kids are overly targeted by commercial interests, so the question of \\"does it make its point\\" doesn't seem to matter much (the answer is yes).  If it won't convince  you of its argument since you've already been convinced, what it will do at times is startle you with just how blatant or over-the-top that targeting is. <br /> The book itself is well-documented in a variety of ways--a pleasing and effective mix of personal anecdote (a mother herself), academic scholarship/studies, psychiatry, and old-fashioned journalism involving interviews, internal company memos, and in some of the most interesting scenes, \\"under-cover\\" experience at some marketing conferences/workshops.   <br />  All the major and expected culprits are examined:  tobacco, alcohol, sex, toys, television, etc..  Each one given roughly equal treatment of analysis, anger, and disdain. For the most part, the analysis is even-toned (though always with a sense of sad anger or urgency), though she occasionally stacks the deck against the book's villains a bit too obviously. <br />  Linn closes with some proposed solutions. While she acknowledges the role of parents in such simple solutions as \\"hey, turn off the TV!\\", her main argument is that the balance of power has shifted too greatly over the past 20 years or so and the govt. needs to step in on a more aggressive parental/child-friendly fashion.  Some will find her solutions overly-intrusive, others will cheer them on, and sadly, I think many will nod in agreement while thinking the genie's already out of the bottle. <br />  There's really very little to complain about with regard to the book.  As mentioned, it's a bit self-evident, so one doesn't expect any \\"wow\\" moments.  And perhaps some more historical context could be helpful.  A bit more balance from the other side would have been nice, even if it's hard to imagine much of a defense.  But overall, it's a detailed, lucidargument made in pleasant fashion, even if the end result is frustration and sadness over just how far things have gone. Recommended.	2005-04-07
US	53074803	R10I5S61CZ6J8Y	0674015088	689229349	Huck's Raft : A History of American Childhood	Books	5	9	9	N	N	good general discussion, loses detail toward end	Delving into the complete history of childhood in America is a huge undertaking, and for the most part Mintz handles the difficulties with detailed aplomb.  Surveying the culture of childhood as lived by children and as represented and mythologized by current or later society, Mintz moves from pre-colonial times to the very-near present. <br />  With so much to cover, not just chronologically but socially as well (after all, \\"childhood\\" isn't the same for all at any given time--race, class, ethnicity, etc. all create separate spheres of childhood rather than an all-conclusive web), one might expect some problems.  Luckily, the strongest parts of the book are also those which will probably be most insightful and new to readers. <br />  The sections that deal with pre-colonial and colonial times are especially detailed.  Richly vivid, they open up a world most people are unfamiliar with or, if they are familiar with it, are so through less-than-accurate myth or romanticism, the kind of \\"history\\" we all \\"know\\" to be true. <br />  As the book progresses, it becomes more and more difficult to keep that level of detail and richness as the topic literally grows larger and larger.  Slavery, war, immigration, race, class, economics all force Mintz to deal with different subsets of childhood as well as with the relatively simple chronological changes and so some detail is shed, some richness lost, and the book begins to feel a bit scattershot, a bit unwieldy.  By the time we get to the last 20-30 years, one feels Mintz is running to keep in place.  The sections are more generalized, the conclusions not so deeply explored. But as nothing really new comes up in these sections in comparison to what one has read in recent articles or books dealing with just this time period, it isn't really much of a loss. <br />  It's hard to imagine a longer work, or one more fully documented.  And while I personally would have wished the same length but with a narrower focus on the pre-1900's,I can't really fault Mintz for not deciding to write several volumes, say one for each century.  So the negatives aren't really much to complain about and are more than overshadowed by the scope of the book as a whole and the depth of the first half.  Stylistically, the book is clearly written, if at times dense, and the more personal, anecdotal stories focusing on a single historical individual do a nice job not only of conveying the more academic arguments, but of breaking up some of the factual density.  Strongly recommended, especially for its early history sections.	2005-04-05
US	53074803	RHOG070SWDBIP	0810151502	743017663	Florida	Books	3	21	25	N	N	poetic prose, character/narrative not as strong	Florida was the last of the five National Book Award nominees that I came to read, and while it broke the trend of the books getting worse as I read, I  have to say, as I've said of the others, that I'm not quite sure why it received such high honor.  But if the five as a whole were weak, Florida at least is one of the two best in that weak group. <br />  Like the other decent nominee, Madeleine is Sleeping,  Florida is more a collection of vignettes than a single run of novelistic narrative.  Though less surreal and playful than Madeleine, the two also share a highly poetic prose, and both display a strong talent for language, if not story or character. <br />  The vignettes are the first-person narrative of Alice Fivey, who loses first her father when she is quite small, then her mother (to a treatment facility known as the Sans) when she is about ten. She is first shuttled off to her Uncle Billy's and Aunt Frances relatively strict home, then to the rich estate of her grandmother (\\"Nonna\\"), aged, speechless, stroke-impaired.  We dip in and out of her childhood, adolescence, young adulthood, and adulthood as she moves toward a more independent life and yet remains tied to the family, especially circling around an uneasy relationship with her mother who now lives in California.  Her two most intimate relationships are with the family chauffeur/servant Arthur and a high school teacher, Mr. Early. <br />  The prose is at times strikingly beautiful and usually has a spare loveliness to it that carries the reader along.  The vignettes are small, the book slight, and while the prose isn't simple, it's a relatively easy and quick read.  Style is the book's strong suit. <br />  My biggest problem with the book was a lack of engagement.  The structure doesn't allow for much of an intense impact as it glides so quickly from scene to scene, not letting anything linger too much, a problem Schutt sometimes overcomes with strong finishing lines at the end of sections.  The character, for me, never truly developed into a real person or a fully detailed one, except a few times in her interactions with Arthur. As her older family members (mother, uncle, aunt) and others important to her life (Arthur, Mr. Early)  spiral down into aged frailty and/or death, there is sadness, but it is more general and abstract than particular.  I didn't feel moved by or for this narrator or these characters; I felt moved by the general sadness of the human condition.  One could have substituted any characters and it would have had the same effect.  Since I am also moved by the sad plight of the human condition by phone commercials, I can't give the writer too much credit for making me sad towards the end. <br />  I would have liked a stronger sense of individuality, a more precise and intimate sense of character(s).  But the book's structure, length, and voice didn't really allow for it.  Since it's such a fast read and the prose is at times nicely poetic, I wouldn't recommend against reading it; it's a nice evening spent.  But there is so much out there that is as well-written, or more moving, or more stimulating/thoughtful that I can't give it a strong recommendation either.  I would, however, give Schutt another chance with her next book in hope that her language use is better served by her story/characters.	2005-04-05
US	53074803	R2HLGIIV1BIW65	0441011799	701127178	Singularity Sky	Books	3	5	7	N	N	middle-of-the road work with potential not really met, low 3	The good news about Singularity Sky is it has a truly great premise.  That sometime in the future when time-travel/violation of causality became possible, to prevent major universe/species trauma, a superintelligent AI (Eschaton) dropped back a few time periods and picked up about nine billion humans, scattering them across space in seeded colonies.  It then announced \\"I am not your God\\", forbade causality violations on pains of punishment, and now rules the universe. <br />  The bad news?  This is all simply premise, summed up in a few paragraphs, and has almost nothing to do with the story of Singularity Sky. Which is really too bad, since the skeleton of the Eschaton story is the book's most interesting part. <br />  So what is Singularity Sky about?   A traveling information-civilization called The Festival comes across one of those seeded areas (The New Republic) and inflicts on its luddite-type people and govt. a \\"singularity\\"--a sudden and massive technological change along the lines of several thousand  years of technological development in a few weeks.  Half of the story deals, somewhat, with the effects on the hierarchical, capitalistic society of the singularity when all its citizens basically find every wish granted through technology (long lives, miracle cures, any material good at their fingertips, etc.).  The other half of the story follows the New Republic's battle fleet as it tries to sneak up on The Festival by using time travel to arrive just as The Festival does, as opposed to weeks later as would happen in normal time. <br />  The problem is the Eschaton, current ruler of the universe, frowns mightily on playing with time and so it gets a human agent, Martin Springfield, on board the fleet to try and do something about it.  Also on board as a diplomatic observer is the Terran U.N. agent Rachel Mansour, who wants to also stop the fleet from violating causality to pre-empt any action by Eschaton, who seemingly doesn't go in much for surgical strikes when it punishes violators (turning suns nova tends to be one of Eschaton's smaller punishments). <br />  The book begins with the Festival's arrival (a wonderful opening scene with cell phones falling like a million Aladdin's Lamps from the sky), shifts to introduce Martin who is an \\"consultant engineer\\" on the New Republic's newest battlecruiser and Rachel, along with  a few smaller yet important characters (the emperor, a low-on-the-rungs secret police agent, an admiral, a planetary revolutionary, etc.).  Eventually it shifts between the planet where the Festival landed, cycling through scenes of social upheaval and violence, and the launch/flight of the avenging fleet where Rachel and Martin try to evade capture as spies while trying to prevent the fleet from ticking of Eschaton. <br />  The characters of Rachel and Martin are relatively flat.  They fall for each other ridiculously quickly and their relationship has little depth to it.  Both are pretty two-dimensional, as are most of the other character, some  of which don't aspire even to that.  Since it's extremely obvious that the luddite New Republic and its obsolete firepower isn't going to be able to last a nano-second against The Festival, a civilization that hasn't spent the past few centuries putting limits on information and technology, there is really no tension with regard to what is going to happen in the \\"battle.\\"  Despite this, there are pages and pages of military preparations and techno-military lingo that are at time painful to get through (skimming helps I found).  And since both Martin and Rachel have technology at their grasp that would seem like magic to the New Republic's on-board officers, that is very little tension with regard to their capture, since it's obvious even if they are found out somehow, escape would come pretty easily. <br />  What happens on the ground is much more interesting, as the planet's society begins to implode. There is no such thing as scarcity anymore, since portable cornucopia machines exist that can make anything from anything. Energy is not a problem. Aging and illness disappear.  All of these are great benefits over the long haul, but thrown into an authoritarian society overnight, it's like a match to gasoline.  Revolutionaries find their revolution come and gone and morphing into something else.  Violence rages over the planet. And into all this step some of The Festival's weirder and less benevolent \\"passengers\\".  It's all too complex to go into, but it is the most inventive and most interesting section of the book, but it's given too short shrift, is hurt by the shallow characterization, and is also marred in places by some clumsy humor. <br />  In the end, Singularity Sky has its moments, mostly of idea rather than execution.  It isn't a bad read if one ignores (skims) the jargony sections and forgives the often wince-inducing humor (some of which, to  be fair, is obviously intentionally wince-inducing).  And it's a fast read.  But with so much better out there (China Mieville's Perdido Station series, Wright's Golden Age series, etc.) I'm not sure it's a worthwhile read.  Now if he went back and wrote the novel of Eschaton's  birth and mass kidnapping . . .  <br />  Not recommended, though not a bad book.  Just not a particularly good one.	2005-04-04
US	53074803	R38F1SP2A0UMH6	0689845340	380161256	The Farthest Shore (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	one of the strongest books in the series	The Farthest Shore is the third book in the Earthsea series, and the concluding one for several decades.  Since it's highly recommended to have read the first two, I'll work on the assumption that the reader has.  If book one, Wizard of Earthsea has the most action/magic and book two, Tombs of Atuan, is the slowest and most introspective of the opening trilogy, then The Farthest Shore is a nicely-balanced blending of the styles. <br />  We return to many of the basics from Wizard.  Ged is once again the main character instead of a side character as in Atuan, the setting once again moves island to island throughout the archipelago rather than being limited to a single place as in Atuan, magic is much more present than in book two, and there is an actual villain in opposition to Ged unlike the more abstract problems in the previous book.  All of these will probably be welcome changes to those who found Atuan too slow or limited in place and character. <br />  Shores shares with both Wizard and Atuan a coming-of-age theme, in this case it is Arren, a young prince who has come to Roke to tell Ged and the Master Wizards that magic is bleeding away in his land only to learn that the same is true all over Earthsea.  Arren joins Ged in the quest to find out what (or more accurately who) is causing magic to die away, and why/how. <br />  The broadening of characters that began in Atuan continues in Shore.  Though Ged is once again the main character, he is not the sole focus as Le Guin gives considerable attention to Arren's growth as well as, though to a lesser extent to the other Masters of Roke.  In fact, the small scenes involving the Masters are some of the most exquisite and most moving.   <br />  Much of the same personal reflection and introspective nature of Atuan is also present in Shore, mixed in nicely with more dramatic, action-oriented scenes.  Ged is an old man at this point, and mortality is an issue as it really hasn't been before.  Death and its flip side Life are in fact, the a major subjects of the novel, and as we have in the past, we cross over that stone wall separating the land of the living and the land of the dead, though in this book we go much farther.  While the first two books dealt with larger themes through the focus on a single individual, this one deals with its themes both individually and socially as well. Much more than the other works, Ged deals here with a problem that has an impact that affects the greater society more deeply and broadly than other obstacles he has overcome. <br />  The book is darker than the first two, but also more moving, more achingly beautiful, more poignant.  Ged's age and sense of caution are artfully counterbalanced by Arren's youthful innocence and impetuosity, the more philosophical discussions nicely balanced by the more dramatic action scenes.  And the ending, as one should expect by now, is not nicely wrapped up in sweet, comforting fashion. <br />   As always, the language is sharply vivid, highly efficient and beautiful; the world-creating sense of history and backstory is quickly yet fully conveyed; the characters are fully fleshed out and utterly believable.  Wizard may be the most \\"fun\\" book of the series, Atuan is certainly the slowest and most introspective (simple description, not criticism), but in many ways, The Farthest Shore is the strongest, a judgment I think holds true considering the books that come after as well as those that come before.  Highly recommended. <br />    <br />	2005-04-03
US	53074803	R39TMM4QW0PI0Z	0316156108	48989468	The Ha-Ha: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	transcends its melodramatic premise, a good read	The Ha-Ha on the surface runs the danger of being overly melodramatic, a bit too cute, a bit too sentimental, a bit too Lifetime Channel DRAMA of the week.  While it does, rarely, run the edge, it never crosses over and for the vast majority of the novel stays on the high ground, creating a story and cast of characters that is humorous and moving and all too human. <br />  The narrator, Howard Kapostash, has been unable to speak for several decades due to brain damage suffered by a head wound only a few weeks into his Vietnam tour.  While he had his issues early on, we meet him pretty well ensconced in his comfortable if somewhat lonely and stagnant life.  He lives in a house with Laurel, a gourmet soup chef and his one true friend, and two annoying if innocuous housepainters whom he never bothers to distinguish between.  His job is cutting lawns at the local convent, whose air of withdrawn silence is apt symbolic setting for his life.  Which is quickly turned upside down when Sylvia, his drug-addicted pre-Vietnam girlfriend for whom he still pines, goes into rehab and dumps her nine-year-old son Ryan (not Howard's kid) on him for the duration. <br />   What happens is relatively predictable in general terms, but again King manages to transcend the predictable and offer up a story specific to these particular characters.  Yes, as one might expect, Ryan's presence eventually forces Howard to realized the lonely emptiness of his life and causes him to exit his protective shell of silence; the two annoyingly irresponsible housemates grow more responsible and endearing; Laurel, who \\"cares\\" for folks via cool, abstract distance through her cooking and her running the basics of the household starts to warm up and turn maternal; and Laurel and Howard move toward a closer relationship.  And of course this all happens via fits and starts rather than on a smooth curve. <br />   But despite no major surprises (though there a few minor ones along the way, more detours than surprises), it is all rendered through such a wonderfully human and individual voice (Howard's narration) and is portrayed in such likable fashion, with enough dark turns to keep one interested, that it is easy to forgive the predictability and simply enjoy the story.   <br />   The style is clear and lucid, the pace relatively quick, the plotting smooth, the characterization mostly sharp.  All in all, a highly enjoyable read.  Strongly recommended.	2005-04-01
US	53074803	R1H0Y1TEXZNQIS	0689845367	380161256	The Tombs of Atuan (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	shift style and character but still strong second book	Tombs of Atuan is the second book in the Earthsea series that began with Wizard of Earthsea. Wizard is a true classic, and it wouldn't be much criticism to say Atuan doesn't match it.  It's true,  but Atuan is still well worth the read, quite strong in its own right.   <br />  The book is a near complete shift of character, setting, and style.  Ged, the protagonist of Earthsea, is present, but mostly off-stage for much of the book, giving way to a young girl called Tenar.  The setting, rather than an episodic tour of the Earthsea archipelago, is much more narrow, taking place on a single island, in mostly two very limited areas--Tenar's priestess palace and the labyrinth below it where Ged is trapped.  And the pace is much slower, with less action and magic, with more of a focus on introspective analysis of character. <br />   Tenar was taken from her family while still quite young, seen as the reincarnated Priestess of the Tombs of Atuan, where the Nameless Ones dwell.  She is now known as the Eaten One, and she is indeed for her life is to be completely dedicated to the rites of her job.  We follow her the slow swallowing of her life and feeling by the dark cult of the Nameless Ones, aided by an older, harsh priestess.   <br />   Ged makes his way into the story via his attempt to find the second half of a magical amulet important to the unity and peaceful progression of the archipelago. The Nameless Ones are more powerful than he had expected and Tenar comes across him weak and lost in the labyrinth.  Rather than reveal his intrusion, Tenar imprisons him. At first he is a plaything, one of the few things she has \\"power\\" over.  But as her conversations with him continue they move from mocking self-assurance to self-doubt--about her religion, about her role in it, about her own sense of self and morality.  In the end she must choose, in a slanted echo of Ged's dilemma from book one, between the darkness and the light, between life and death, between power and freedom. <br />   As in book one, the choice is not as simplistic as it seems on the surface and as is so often portrayed in fantasy.  Tenar's confusion and misery, her sense of being torn between what she has been living her whole life and what she is now learning about herself and the outside world, is nicely conveyed and while Ged takes on a more active role toward the end, his role is mostly as catalyst for Tenar's coming-of-age. <br />  The language, as one expects of Le Guin, is spare and precise, beautiful in many places, efficient as always.  The issues are, as in book one, larger and more human than the story's surface plot.  It is a very character-centered book, with its focus on Tenar's internal conflict and the slowly evolving relationship between her and Ged.  It is a  much quieter book, a more slowly paced book than Wizard of Earthsea, with less action, much less overt magic, few characters, fewer peaks and valleys, but while it may surprise those who enjoyed Wizard, it should still please in a different way all but those who are more \\"action\\"-focused. Strongly recommended.	2005-04-01
US	53074803	R39XODJEB6J29L	0066209803	325125084	In the Rose Garden of the Martyrs: A Memoir of Iran	Books	3	9	11	N	N	strong prose, good insight, didn't care for style/structure	In the Rose Garden of the Martyrs has many strengths and was the sort of book I wanted to like more than I did.  The prose is sharp and vivid, with some inventively insightful images/phrases.  The insights into Iran range from the large (politics, society as a whole, the future of the revolution) to the small and personal (rhetorical offerings of favors/courtesies not meant to be accepted, family tensions).  But thanks to the episodic, impressionistic nature of the work, I never felt a strong sense of cohesiveness or narrative. <br />  \\"Memoir\\" is probably somewhat of a misnomer, as there is very little about Bellagiue's experiences in the book and \\"memoir\\" as well tends to imply a relatively straightforward  narrative whereas Garden is actually more a collection of encounters/interviews/interactions with various members of Iranian society layered between descriptions/explanations of ancient (centuries ago) and more recent (especially 1970 on) Iranian history.   <br />  On the one hand, it's a nice mix of abstract history and personal impact of that  history, especially with regards to the Iraq-Iran war, which takes up much of the book's focus.  On the other hand, the mosaic approach didn't quite add up for me, though it does perhaps make a nice companion piece to other, more mundane memoirs such as Persepolis and Reading Lolita in Tehran, two works I enjoyed more though they lacked the detailed history. <br /> The range of characters offers up a nice cross-section of Iranian society, the almost incomprehensible human tragedy of the war is vividly conveyed, and Bellaigue makes Iran come alive in human terms more than any magazine article or policy book can.  Some of the characters I found more compelling than others, and one of the reasons I didn't find the book completely enjoyable is that I had less interest in Hossein Kharrazi, a military leader and martyr who takes up a significant portion of the book. <br />   While the nature of the anecdotal approach didn't do much for me, there's no denying the author's talent with language or his skills of social observation/analysis.   I'm guessing the book would have gone down better over a few days, a chapter or two at a time, rather than one or two long reading stretches, more like how I would have read a collection of short stories.  That would be my recommendation at least. <br />Recommended, with a few reservations due to the structure and the somewhat inaccurate description of it as \\"memoir\\",   Not as enjoyable from my viewpoint as Reading Lolita or Persepolis, but a good companion book, one that could be read a bit at time while reading the others more straight through.	2005-04-01
US	53074803	RJ3KWZ0BIJAX8	0812579844	887642373	The Golden Age (The Golden Age, Book 1)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	good start--the whole trilogy is worth the time and effort	It's always tough deciding whether or not to pick up a book, especially a thick one, that is the start of a trilogy.  Is the book going to be worth it?  Is the series?  Or am I locking myself into drearily reading a thousand-plus pages because I don't have the will power to just stop even though it's bad and I'm just encouraging the publishers in their crass money-making schemes? <br />  The good news is that The Golden Age is a very good book that is the start of an overall excellent, if a bit over-long, trilogy.  It's well worth the time you'll invest. <br />   One of the pleasures of the series is that it is set so far into the future, 10, 000 years in the future, a time seldom visited by most fiction, at least in my personal reading experience.  With the passage of so much time, the word is in some ways unrecognizable from our own, and the obvious advances that would take place over such a time gap frees Wright to become incredibly inventive.  It would be impossible to give a full survey of the technology available in this universe, but suffice to say it is depicted in realistic and detailed terms (probably too detailed for some).   <br />   The setting, as mentioned, is ten thousand  years from now in a solar system-wide utopia co-run by super-intelligent self-aware machines and humans who are become like gods due to their technology.  They are, for all intents and purposes, immortal due to the ability to make \\"back-up\\" copies of  themselves.  They make partials of themselves to do other work; can \\"reproduce\\" in many ways; filter from their senses what they don't wish to take note of; download, purge, change their memories as they see fit; choose various body shapes/forms depending on purpose, harness the sun's power via a vast solar array;  have ignited Jupiter for more power, and the list goes on.  While physical settings are relatively vague, the details with regard to the engineering and social aspects of the solar system are quite exhaustive.  Crime is basically unheard of, peer pressure in the form of the \\"horators\\" is the prevailing method of socialization, and war is so much not a consideration that only \\"one\\" (keeping in mind the ability to make copies) soldier is left--Atkins.  And while almost all the system's inhabitants are more than comfortable, there remain differences of class and wealth, as well as a myriad of different philosophies and \\"schools\\" of living. <br />  When the Golden Age starts, the utopian society is about to celebrate another millennium, a celebration that will end with a mass linking of minds to determine the general shape of the next thousand years.  Into this celebration steps Phaethon, the \\"son\\" of Helion (who runs the solar array), a relatively \\"young\\" and impulsive person who learns in the first few pages that his memories have been tampered with by the supposedly benevolent govt. in an attempt to stop his plan to colonize the stars with his almost-finished starship, the first of its kind.  From there the story moves through a myriad of plot twists as Phaethon tries to figure out just who tampered with his mind (he turns out to be one of the suspects) and why; whether his society is in fact the utopia it's advertised as, if he is in love with his locked-herself-in-an-artificial-dream wife or the copy of her; if the \\"Silent Oecumene\\"--the only colonization attempt and one that seemed to fail horribly and completely ages ago--is actually dead or alive and if alive whether it's enemy or ally; and if he himself is hero or villain; among many other stories and side-stories.   <br />  The plot (which I've barely scratched) is, admittedly, at times overly complex throughout the series, with Wright seemingly getting a bit too clever with manipulated twist after twist, but it mostly remains a pleasure to attempt to follow.  The technology is wonderfully inventive, though at times the jargon can get overwhelming (I would read nearly opaque sections to my wife as humorous examples).  The philosophical battles (mostly arising in the third book) get a bit talky and clumsy in terms of their integration, but the ideas behind them are fascinating and certainly fully fleshed out.  There is a nice breath of humor running through the series--at times witty, at times clumsy or forced, but welcome all the same.  The characterization, apart from Phaethon, is not the series' strong suit, but they are serviceable in terms of the story.  And finally, the series is definitely a bit bloated; I don't know if it could have been cut down by  a full third to only two books, but certainly by 20-25 percent. <br />   Despite its flaws, however, it's such a fun ride in terms of plot, inventiveness, and thoughtfulness that the positives far, far outweigh the negatives.  It lags a bit in book two, and book three slows a bit for the philosophical discussion, but it's well worth starting and finishing.  Highly recommended.	2005-03-30
US	53074803	R2UZ6N7OV11W8L	1931561850	968957064	The Seas	Books	3	6	10	N	N	bit too random, for every two gems of prose also a rock	The Seas has in it a wonderful short story, or perhaps better yet a gorgeous poem.  But as a novel it suffers somewhat from an overly flat tone, too much randomness, and a number of strained or weak images that divert attention from some of the beautiful prose. <br />  The narrator, a  nineteen year old girl living in a tiny coastal town lost her father to the sea when she was eight and now lives with her mother and grandfather (a too conveniently word-ready typesetter).  Convinced she's a mermaid, she longs for the town's troubled Iraq War veteran Jude, despite the wide age difference, his alcohol issues (the town as she tells us several times has a problem with alcohol), and his womanizing.   <br />     As one might guess from the mermaid, the book meanders between reality and fantasy, blurring the edges repeatedly.  The success is hit and miss, at times the fantastic imagery hits home, at other times it seems the product of a writer trying too hard to be fantastic.  <br />   The bleakness of tone and setting is both a strength and a weakness.  A strength when it is carried through description of the setting and sometimes through the voice (though at times it is thrust upon the reader a bit too obviously), a weakness because it dominates the voice nearly to the exclusion of all other feeling, leaving the novel feeling monotone and flat, making it a difficult read over even its relatively slim length (one reason why this might have worked better as a long short story).  The style often seems flat with its first-person narrative that all too often (or at least often enough to be noted and to grow irritating) falls into the same pattern of speech (\\"I verb . . . I verb . . . I verb . . . He verb . . . He verb\\"). <br />   The sea is wonderfully depicted as an ever-present character--often menacing, sometimes beautiful and otherworldly, sometimes imprisoning.  Here again, sometimes the imagery is a bit strained or forced, but less so and the good stuff with regard to the sea is so good that it overwhelms the bad. <br />   There is a lot of wonderful imagery and some truly inventive and gorgeous turns of phrase, but I also found that for every two or three such phrases there was one that simply grated--either the imagery was forced or strained or too obvious or jumbled or it simply didn't seem to work as an idea versus as a neat string of words.  Some judicious pruning of those would have made this much stronger. <br />   The main character is nicely portrayed but the others feel a bit flat and the grandfather seemed to me more of a plot device than a character with his convenient job/hobby of typesetting dictionaries that allows him to pull out nicely appropriate words and definitions on a regular basis. <br />   The mix of fairy tale and reality, grittiness and fabulism when it works is quite strong; when it is forced it tends to pull the reader out of the story, forcing them to acknowledge \\"getting it.\\"  And there were times where the two seemed to work against each other, as when she tells us how tiny the town is and yet gives us several instances of unknown people or actions that seem to belie an ignorance of what would have been much-talked-about events. <br />    The book began to drag for me about two-thirds of the way in due to the flat voice and the random vignette nature of the story, and bogged down almost completely when it began to focus more on Jude's story. The ending has a nice center, but like the book as a whole, seemed diluted by too much around it. <br />    The author certainly displays a love and talent for inventive language, enough so that while I didn't much care for The Seas, I'd give a second book a chance (30 to 50 pages or so) to win me over.  But as for the Seas, I can't recommend it despite the scattered gems among its pages.  Those gems, however, did raise the rating from a two which is what I would usually give a book that didn't maintain my interest or that felt forced so often.	2005-03-30
US	53074803	R372GC9EEB1DN6	0618439234	479205611	A Seahorse Year: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	good base to story, flags somewhat as goes on, good close	A Seahorse Year sounds from its premise as if it's trying a bit too hard:  lesbian mother raised in abusive household raising about-to-be-diagnosed-with-schizophrenia adolescent son with the help of his gay searching-for-love dad and her lesbian searching-for-love-and-herself lover/artist.  All set in San Fran of course.  And at times, it is true that it does strain a bit.  But perhaps the most endearing and insightful aspect of Seahorse is that amid this scattershot collection of \\"modern family\\" lies the same old pitfalls, fear, flaws, jealousies, bravery, compassion, and love as lies in the \\"traditional\\" family. <br />  The book starts a few days into Christopher's having run off, the first concrete sign of his worsening illness.  As they cope together and individually with his disappearance, we are introduced one by one to: <br />   his mother Nan--gay, confused and guilt-ridden over Christopher's disappearance, angry over her lover's still supposedly secret affair, and with only a small family support system of her own due to her abusive childhood raising. <br />   Marina--Nan's longtime partner, an artist struggling for years to capture the \\"true\\" Tree image she paints non-stop and to find just what her life is up to, including her relationships with Nan, Nan's son, Christopher's father, and Shiloh--the much younger girl she is cheating on Nan with. <br />   Hal--Christopher's father, a well-off gay accountant semi-famous at one time for his role in an extravagant gay stage show.  A man of numbers and a man who is falling in love even while his other life falls apart. <br />  Christopher--the son who runs away, is diagnosed with schizophrenia, then is put through a series of treatments, all of which \\"work\\", though the cost to self is always a question. <br />   Tamara--Christopher's girlfriend who sees him perhaps more clearly than others, though whether this is true or not is later held up for scrutiny. <br />  <br />   We follow the family through Christopher's first disappearance, his diagnosis, several treatment regimens, and another more dramatic disappearance.  The perspective shifts among the main characters and while the shifts are handled smoothly, they sometimes happen so frequently over so brief a time that the book feels somewhat cluttered so that the reader loses some sense of story and character because so much is going on.  Some streamlining of sidestories, perhaps some more time spent in each perspective would have helped.   <br />   The sense of desolation, confusion, anger and resentment the situation creates is clearly and realistically conveyed.  The characters are not saints. They are human beings and act both compassionately and selflessly and juvenile and selfishly in turn.  And their lives, though they may revolve around Christopher and his illness during this time, do not stop moving in other areas. <br />  At times, as mentioned before, the  book seems to strain a bit in its plot and sometimes in its language--story turns that seem a bit contrived for sake of complexity or further drama, images that echo a bit too patly what is happening in the story.  These flaws don't happen regularly enough to ruin the book,  but enough so they are noted several times throughout.  The story seems to run down a bit as well in the latter part, and while it picks up again, the more forceful narrative flow is sometimes overly dramatic as situations and characters start to turn somewhat unbelievable.  But that part is over quickly and the end returns to a more realistic, quiet, and character-driven story.  The end, in fact, with its ambiguity and its shaded resolutions (as opposed to a nice wrapped up  happy ending) is one of the book's highlights.   <br />  Others are the relationship between Tamara and Christopher, which is beautifully depicted, and the view from Christopher's mind, which conveys not simply the sorrow and terror of mental illness, but also a more, perhaps \\"positive\\" isn't the right word but a side that is less filled with sorrow and terror but which offers a slant view of the world that has at times its own beauty. <br />   Finally, the idea of whether you can truly \\"know\\" someone, or even yourself, is examined throughout all the book's interactions in full, complex, and moving fashion.  Each must find their own way of answering that question and the author is true enough to her characters to let the answers, if they are found at all, differ. <br />   Overall, a book with some noticeable flaws and one that would be helped by some streamlining, but also one that has a strong story at its center and a few good characters to carry the story's weight. Recommended.	2005-03-28
US	53074803	RJ8WR6Q9WDCSF	006072448X	467980841	We Need to Talk About Kevin: A Novel	Books	3	145	168	N	N	compelling at times, too long, flawed characters	Kevin is one of a recent series of \\"Columbine\\" books--those that try and plumb the characters of young boys who plan high school massacres.  Some are just bad (Vernon God Little), others are great (Project X).  Kevin falls in the  middle. <br />     Its major strength is the compelling nature of the premise--just what is it that caused young Kevin (in prison at the time of the novel's present) to kill several of his classmates and some school staff?  It's the sort of question we all know there is no real answer for, and yet we feel the need to ask it anyway. Both the question and the  need to ask it are examined through the course of the narration--structured as a series of letters from Eva, Kevin's mother, to her estranged husband and Kevin's father, Franklin. <br />  While the structure allows for a lot of introspection and detail, it also feels a bit gimmicky in places.  On the one hand, it's seems self-evidently clumsy when she spends so much time telling Franklin things he already knows, having lived through those same scenes.  On the other hand, that self-evident clumsiness eventually too obviously hints at what is supposed to be, as Publisher Weekly puts it, \\"a huge and crushing shock.\\"  Without giving much away, I'll say it didn't seem all that shocking by the time it happened and somewhat worsened the contrived feel of the structure. <br />  The other negative aspect of Shriver's choice of structure is that it locks us into a single voice, that of the mother, and over the book's 300+ pages, that voice starts to wear on the reader. Actually, it began to wear on this reader pretty early and Eva's voice was one of the major stumbling blocks to continuing the book.  She is not a likable character through much of it and though I give Shriver credit for taking such a risk, Eva is also at times not a particularly interesting person which makes reading her for pages and pages tough to do at times. Worse than uninteresting or unlikable, she can be downright annoying (whiny, self-interested, self-deluded, passive, unbelievable) which makes it even  harder to follow  her for so long. <br />   Character in general is a flaw in the book.  While Eva is tough to swallow at times, there are enough times of sharp insight (into people or society in general), of incisive humor, of complexity (a woman truly torn over motherhood) that one can sort of ride those moments over the rougher sections.  The other characters, unfortunately, almost never offer such redeeming  moments. The father, Franklin, is mostly a dolt, almost a caricature of one, and is simply too hard to believe.  There is denial, there is delusion, there is a reader's suspension of disbelief, and there is \\"I just don't buy a real person would be this dumb this often\\".  Franklin falls into the last category.  The sister, Celia, is far too shallow, far too docile, too clearly Kevin's opposite, and therefore comes across as more plot contrivance than character.  And what happens with her ratchets up the suspension of disbelief to the stretching point and then beyond. Other characters are barely felt, though even some of these are hard to believe (especially in a plot involving a school teacher and district board). <br />   The plot, as mentioned above, does have some major flaws of believability, especially as Kevin ages and his behavior becomes more serious. The book's strengths I think lie more in the pre-Kevin descriptions of Eva's honest ambivalence over motherhood and in Kevin's early, pre-vocal years.  After that his precociousness becomes more difficult to believe, as does his parents' passive response to his behavior and language.  His father is portrayed as more dumb and  deluded and other adults as more clueless.  And there's simply too much plot.  One of the reasons Project X is so good is that Shepard knew to keep it tight.  There is at times in Kevin agonizingly unnecessary detail.  And so much time detailing Kevin's behavior only makes it all the more  unbelievable that nobody does anything about it. <br />    As mentioned before, the big \\"surprise\\" at the end wasn't really all that surprising. The murders itself, when finally shown, are somewhat anti-climatic, partly because it's so hard to believe Kevin's set-up actually worked and partly because not only have we spent almost 400 pages aimed at them and being exposed to lots of smaller but similarly evil acts from Kevin,  but also because we've also been given in some detail many of the well-publicized actual killings such as Columbine etc.  But if the big shocker and the murder scene aren't all that successful, the ending is.  One just wishes it would have come sooner and cleaner.  There's are some real gems in We Need to Talk about Kevin, but they would shine a  lot more clearly and powerfully if the book had been cut by at least a third and if a few of the side characters had been more fully dimensional.  It's an interesting read, at times a compelling one, but also a slow and eventually disappointing one.  It's much, much better than Vernon God Little, nowhere near as spot-on or compelling as Project X.  Slightly recommended for its good parts and its close, with forewarning that it has a lot of flaws, any one of which might make you put the book down well before the end.	2005-03-18
US	53074803	R1CPAR9IQXTK9	0066209447	722701151	The News from Paraguay: A Novel	Books	1	12	15	N	N	Can't understand the praise/award	Did you ever have a fellow reading friend who kept recommending books you didn't like?  First you'd read them and give faint, vague praise.  Then you'd read them and quickly change the subject. Then you'd just pretend you read them.  All the time feeling guilt and sadness?  This is how I'm now feeling about the National Book Award Committee.  I'd already read three of the five finalists before tackling Paraguay, and hadn't been impressed by or more importantly gotten enjoyment out of any of them.  In fact, each one I've read has been worse than the one before.  So I decided to skip Florida (I'll pretend to have read it) and jump to Paraguay, the winner.  But instead of being the best, as winning the award might lead one to assume, it is the worst.  <br />    Perhaps the fact that the publisher felt the need to identify the work as a novel in the title itself should have given some forewarning.  The prose is not spare, sparse, crystalline, or minimalist.  It is simply mostly flat and monotone, seldom evoking interest in either style or content.  The structure, small vignettes taking the form of narrative, letters, diary entries, etc. adds no interest to the work and thus comes across as more lazy (no desire to pen actual transitions) than experimental.  As a whole the work is episodic but the episodes are too often disconnected, too often perched at the same narrative level, too often voiced in the same tone.  Between the flat-voiced narration, the seemingly random episodic structure, and the brevity of the separate narrative moments, it is difficult to work up much interest over what is happening or how it is told.  And the characters do not save Tuck, as all too few are interesting in their own right and the ones who are tend to be small side characters who are too quickly discarded.  Once you remove style, story, and character, you aren't left with much and this book was a struggle to complete, despite its slimness.  Rather than growing accustomed to the style,I found myself growing more and more annoyed by it. <br />  Clearly the Book Award committee found something to like in this work, and people should keep that in mind, but no matter how hard I look, I simply can't figure out what it was. Even among the other nominees, none of which were particularly strong and whose nominations I also couldn't understand, there were better choices for the award.  And there were far too many books published last year not nominated that will better serve a reader's time.  Not recommended.	2005-03-17
US	53074803	R1I320CAZIJIDM	0380974916	208008744	The Shadow Roads (The Swans' War, Book 3)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	decent but anticlimatic close to trilogy	The Shadow Roads bring the Swans' War to a somewhat satisfying close, but its many weaknesses lessen the impact it might have had.  The strength is the backstory--the sense of myth surrounding the three children of Wyrr, Death walled away into his own world, stories of loss and  transformation.  When Russell spends time in this area, whether in detail or just tangentially, it lends a sad sense of grandeur and depth to the work as a whole. Unfortunately, this strength is negated by too many weaknesses.   <br />   One is that the characters become more pallid as we come to the end of the story, rather than more intense as should  be the case after having spent three books' worth of time with them.  Shadow Roads follows the by-now-familiar multi-stranded structure of most fantasy, with frequent shifts of perspective and setting.  But none of them really catch fire.  There are so many characters that the individual impact of any one is diluted, and we are all too often too quickly whisked away from one to the other.  It isn't that the story is too complex (except one area to be discussed), but that it's too thinly spread. We simply don't spend enough time with any of them to care much about them.  And some characters are simply dragged along with little to say or do, so that one wonders why the editor didn't tell Russell to either kill them off or send them home with a message. <br />   The plot is mostly two-fold:  the quest to beat Hafydd to a place where he can set in motion the release of Death and the quest to resolve the ongoing and more mundane war between the Renne's and the Wills. The first story is pretty straightforward though it suffers from a somewhat plodding pace (too much time describing river travel that is too similar to previously described river travel), some superfluous characters and plot-lines that are mostly just dropped in and forgotten (perhaps setting up future works?), and an abrupt close with a deus ex machina resolution that is very anti-climatic.  The second story, dealing with the  more mundane war, suffers from complexity for complexity's sake, where too many people with the same last names have double-crossed or pretended to double-cross too many other people with the same last names who also double-crossed . . . and so on.  It's unnecessarily complex and simply slows the pace and lessens the impact. And here again, the ending is a bit too pat. <br />   All the way through this series, it felt as if it had greater potential than it was actually achieving, with strong prose and at times strong character/myth creation lifting it up out of the sense of average fantasy one often had while reading it, just in time to keep the reader going. The Shadow Roads keeps the strong descriptive prose (too much so at times) and the myth-sense is as strong as ever or even stronger, but it can't save the book from its other flaws.  It isn't a bad book, but one certainly feels it could have been much better.  Something I'd say about the series as a whole.	2005-03-14
US	53074803	R1GCRH9LUYTQHF	0553382373	340358771	A Secret Atlas (The Age of Discovery, Book 1)	Books	3	20	20	N	N	slow in places, better second half than first, solid start	A Secret Atlas has its flaws, but overall makes for a solidly enjoyable read, especially as it generally (with some exceptions) improves as one moves through it.  The story begins in Nalenyr, one of the \\"Nine Principalities\\", the divided remnants of an empire that along with much of the known world was brought to near ruin centuries earlier in the Great Cataclysm.  The novel focuses most of its attention on the Anturasi family, whose patriarch Qiro has the Talent (capital T intentional) of mapmaking.  His charts have for years allowed Nalenyr to amass wealth and now his two grandsons (whose father Qiro may or may not have purposely sent to his death on an exploration mission) are each sent on a long and vital mission of exploration.  One takes ship to expand Nalenyr's knowledge of the world, the oceans, the best shipping routes for trade. The other goes overland, partially to map out new or rediscovered routes, partially to find a particularly talented inventor, partially to find caches of magical weapons that seemingly are being plundered from the wastes where the Wild Magic of the Cataclysm causes strange things (an understatement) to occur. Their sister stays behind and becomes involved in family dynamics and political intrigue.  Meanwhile, Cyron, the prince of Nalenyr must deal with politics both internal and external, especially an overly aggressive prince seeking to reunite the Empire by the sword, as opposed to Cyron's preferred method of trade.  Toss in various spies, monsters, magical chaos storms, a bureaucracy more concerned with its existence than the state's,  assassins, echoes of European exploration/Chinese empires/South American civilizations and a few other items and one gets a sense of the book's complexity. <br />  Not all of this is successful. At times the history comes across as a bit vague or jargony (throw a whole bunch of fantasy-esque vocab at the reader without much specificity or vividness:  Grand Cataclysm, Age of Black Ice, etc).  One major subplot I would argue is wholly predictable for the reader and should have been so for the characters involved as well, making their obtuseness a bit hard to believe.  And another seems a bit contrived towards the end.  Another problem is that the book starts off slowly, not in the good \\"let a complex tale slowly unfold\\" way but in a \\"I can see where this is going and why are we taking so long to get there way?\\"  And characters tend to get lost in the mishmash so that none really stand out strongly.  Stackpole, however, is  not averse to killing off major characters, so perhaps this problem will sort itself out as we are left with fewer to focus on. <br />  On the positive side, the story in general is interesting enough in its basic premise and its several strands that the above plot flaws are tolerable. And the characters are mostly, though not all, interesting enough that we want to know more about them.  The several-stranded structure, typical of long fantasy epics, is handled well, even if it does rely a bit too heavily on the shift-to-a-new-setting/perspective-at-a-dramatic-moment structure.  Most positively, for the most part the story improves in pace and interest as it goes on. <br />   The meshing of various histories- Chinese, European, South American empires-with the fantasy setting works as well, though at times it's a bit clumsy, at other times one wishes he did more with it. <br />   Overall, Atlas isn't a great book, but it has a relatively unique germ of an idea with its focus on exploration and its echoes of past cross-cultural empires and if its success in character and plot is somewhat uneven, it ends up being a solid start to a longer work and one which I'll continue to follow.  Recommended.	2005-03-12
US	53074803	R2CT73FT1TWV73	0756402190	460694079	1: Shadowmarch: Shadowmarch: Volume I	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Good start, and it is just a start--don't expect fast pace	Shadowmarch is the start of yet another epic fantasy trilogy  by one of the genre's better known authors.  While I wouldn't personally equate Shadowmarch with Wiliams' earlier masterpiece (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn), it does stand above much of what is being written today.  As is typical of fantasy, for that matter most genre novels, there are echoes of earlier works by the same author and other works by different authors.  One grows to expect that; it isn't the complete and utter originality that often makes a work but what one does with the similar situations/characters.  By that comparison, Shadowmarch does quite well, for the most part. <br />  The basic premise is the Southmarch lands border the Shadowline, a magical barrier between the lands of man (in a very broad manner) and the lands of the Q'ar, the Faerie race that once lived alongside man but was driven out ages ago when man hysterically blamed them for the onset of a plague.  Now the Q'ar are ready to take their lands back.  Meanwhile, to the south, a great empire under the god-king Autarch is gobbling up lands and threatening Southmarch and its fellow small countries from that direction.  Southmarch is in disarray as King Eddon is being held for ransom in one of the smaller countries between the Autarch and Southmarch.  His three children, Kendrick, Barrick, and Briony must deal with the political infighting among their neighbors, the human threat of the Autarch, the supernatural threat of the Q'ar streaming across the Shadowline, as well as assassination attempts, possible family madness, an inopportune offer of marriage, suspicion of all they once held close, and on the list goes.  Two other major sideplots involve one of the Autarch's many brides (this plot never merges with Southmarch in this novel but clearly will eventually) and a funderling named Chert who finds a mysterious \\"big person\\" child tossed across the Shadowline by the Q'ar and adopts him. <br />  This only covers part of the plot, so its complexity should be pretty obvious.  Shadowmarch is not a fast-paced book, don't expect a lot of pitched battles or fiery oratory or major questing.  It is an introductory book to a massive work and it allows all the stories and their corresponding complexities to unfold at a leisurely pace.  Will some find it slow?  Probably, but the stories and most of the characters are compelling enough that I don't think it ever lags.  As an introductory novel, there are more questions than answers by the end, leaving the reader wanting more despite having just finished 600 or so pages. <br />  The characters vary in their depth. There are a lot of them, some more major than others, but there are enough important ones that sometimes they get short shrift.  Briony is pretty full-featured, though one wishes that as she changes due to her increasing responsibilities that Williams would have let us simply see/feel those changes rather than have Briony or others point them out to us (\\"she was harder . . . \\"). Barrick's story is intriguing, but his character languishes a bit, too often is given little on-page time  and when he is present it's too often in whining, passive fashion. This begins to change toward the end in welcome fashion and his seems destined for much more in book two.  Chert, the funderling delver, is probably the best drawn character and his sidestory involving the mysterious child has many positive elements--tension, suspense, humor, sorrow, passion.  It's in many ways the best of the stories.  The one involving the Autarch's young new wife is less successful. Partially because it has an overly-familiar feel to it plot-wise, partially because it's so disconnected from the rest of the story though obviously that will change, partially because it's so predictable, unlike the rest of the stories.  A far more successful character is the guard captain in love with Briony (he keeps this to himself for obvious reasons) who for various reasons ends up heavily involved in both the war with the Q'ar and the other more human threats.  His character is richly drawn and the time Williams takes with him is well-spent. <br />  Finally, it's always a pleasure to see Williams' view of the fairie, which tends to be much more dark and diverse than most authors.  If anything, there is too little from their perspective and one hopes for more in the next novels.  The language is heightened and the creativity picks up several notches in their sections. <br />   The ending, if one can say this after 600 pages, seems a bit rush, has a bit of anti-climax to it, a bit of deus ex machina that is unexplained, but these are relatively minor flaws and the questions it leaves are much more interesting than the answers it gives. <br />  Fans of Williams' earlier work will see clear echoes and might think it pales a bit to Sorrow (or Otherworld though personally I wasn't a fan of that series and think this better). Fans of Martin's series will note clear similarities that should be chalked up to genre rather than theft.  If I had to choose, I'd say Martin's is a bit better (much more so in dealing with the political), but there isn't a huge gulf.  And in comparison to much of what's out there, Shadowmarch, like Martin's, is a step (or more) above.  Strongly recommended.	2005-03-04
US	53074803	R1B7TULI7N1HWF	0385513275	383057296	The Society of Others	Books	2	4	5	N	N	over the top start, hard to believe middle, cliched close	One feels silly writing such a poor review on the work of someone with a resume like Nicholson, but it's hard to find much positive to say about the Society of Others, the first adult novel written by someone known for his screenplays, stage plays, and young adult.   Though perhaps that's the problem, for Society reads very much like a screenplay or young adult novel, despite being otherwise intended. <br />  The book's unnamed protagonist is a sullen, cynical young man, recently graduated from college who sits in his room all day and tries to ignore the world, whether it come in the form of his family, his girlfriend, or his economic future.  The first quarter of the book introduces the character, puts him through his \\"world-weary\\" paces, and then has him use the thousand pounds gift from his writer father to \\"get away from it all\\" by hitching a ride with a trucker to an unknown destination. <br />  The problems begin almost immediately.  Though he is supposed to have graduated from college, in his speech, his sullen tone, and his cliched version of cynicism, the narrator sounds much more like a 13 year old boy brooding in his room than a 21 or 22-yr-old.  His character is way over the top and while  he occasionally hits some perceptive notes, they're surrounded by so much cliched and over-the-top noise that the few good notes get drowned out.  And none of the dialogue in this section, mostly between the narrator and his family or his girlfriend, sounds like authentic speech.  One can argue that Society has a \\"fable\\" feel to it, so perhaps it isn't intended to, but the thing about most fables is they're short; it's hard to pull off the style and tone over long periods of time--it just gets too wearying on the reader.  In either case, the first 40-50 pages are a struggle to get through.  The trucker whose hobby is philosophy and manages to sum up then skewer most philosophers in a single conversation can be seen as part of the fable mode or as highly contrived; in either case it didn't work for me. <br />   The middle section of the book picks up when the trucker is let into a country that has the look and feel of the old Eastern Europe police states.  Turns out the trucker is smuggling copies of an illegal book into the country. When he is discovered and violence occurs, the narrator manages to escape, left on his own in an unfamiliar, unknown country whose language he does not speak.    The narrator then hooks up with a violent resistance movement, a non-violent poetry-loving resistance, a simple peasant couple trying to get  by while caught between the state police and the terrorists, the state police, an absurdist television talk show host, a strange cello-playing monk with a secret identity, and a man in a grey Mercedes whom the narrator is sure has been hunting him.  While the pace and sense of tension, suspense all pick up in this section, it's marred by some hard-to-believe scenes, some triteness (the peasant couple for instance), and the sense that the characters we meet are just props rather than characters. Again, one has the sense of fable here with the simplistic viewpoints, the shallow characters, the sense-of-disbelief, but it's far too extended and just doesn't seem to work. <br />   The end focuses on his attempts to disentangle himself from the politics he's become enmeshed in and to escape the country, as he realizes that all his earlier cynicism was horribly wrong:  his country, his family, his life wasn't so bad; his family loved him and he didn't do enough to return that love; life is for living; and other nice but trite sentiments.  The end itself returns to fable form. <br />    The whole book reads much more like a young adult novel (not a particularly good one) in its simplicity and obviousness of message and its mostly shallow characterization.  The speedy shifts from scene to scene with little description and the changes in character that are propelled by external events (sometimes too contrived) and occur far too quickly make it feel like a screenplay.  The side characters as props, the lack of names for the main character or main setting, the simplistic notions, and the close make it read like a fable, but one that should have been at most a novella, at best a long short story, rather than a 200 page book.  In short, while it had a few good moments- a few times when the narrator sounded like an original, modern Holden; a few incisive comments on people or society-they were far too few and far between.  Not recommended.	2005-02-27
US	53074803	R11KNB5IUTBMYP	0151011354	724537047	Please Don't Come Back from the Moon	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great premise, strong through most, flags a little in middle	Please Don't Come Back from the Moon has one of the  more endearing starts to a novel that I can recall in quite some time.  It is an early-80's summer in a dying suburb of Detroit and the sixteen-year-old narrator, Michael Smolij, watches helplessly as one by one all the fathers (including his own) slowly disappear. The only clue to their whereabouts is a scrawled note from one that he went \\"to the moon\\", a declaration that somehow contains enough of a whiff of truth that it retains its hold on the boys they left behind, as well as the reader.  The premise manages to be both wonderfully magical and sadly disturbing all at once. <br />   The fathers are just one more disappearance in a long list:  disappearing jobs, dignity, family ties, ambitions.  Disappearing  hope.  And once they are gone, add to the list disappearing childhood, as Michael and his friends take over the roles from their fathers--drinking in the taverns at 13, getting jobs, having bar brawls sleeping with the older, abandoned women.  Soon they are fighting the same desperate battles of bitterness, anger, and despair.  One of the nice small touches is that the sons aren't the only ones to step into the fathers' places. The mothers too become more foul-mouthed, have run-ins with the police, beat up boys taking advantage of their daughters. <br />   At first, there is speculation over where their fathers have gone. One night Michael and his friends search out a hunting camp they're \\"sure\\" they must be, but eventually they care less and less as their responsibilities and their anger grow. <br />  The story focuses on Michael and his cousin Nick during the ensuing 12 years of their lives.  Both are more ambitious than most of their other friends, both influenced by the women in their lives.  While with Sunny, his high school girlfriend, Michael begins his own reading program, tackling Homer several hours a night.  When she heads off to Ann Arbor, Bakopoulos does a nice job conveying the painful separation that ensues not just between high school sweethearts but two people going in different directions.   <br />  Michael continues his gradual movement toward a better life, however, taking courses here and there, going to community college, getting a mall job then taking an internship at the local radio station where he eventually becomes a writer and then a reporter. Along the way he stumbles sullenly and awkwardly through the changes in his family:  his mother's line of boyfriends culminating with Father Mack, the local priest; his younger brother Kolya's growing up; the eventual move of his family to a better suburb when he has to decide to abandon the old neighborhood or not.   <br />   The same awkward progression, full of fits and starts and small regressions occurs in his two major relationships, both with older women, both mothers.  Just when he finally seems to have settled down and the reader can heave a sigh of relief, the book takes a darker, more ambiguous turn as the moon's tidal pull begins exerting its influence over Michael and all the sons of the former disappeared.  The close, without going into details, returns to the same sense of magic and ambiguity with the same sad tone (though leavened a bit more with hope) that the book began with. <br />   Stylistically, the book is well-written throughout.  The world of the Maple Rock community is vividly created, detailed in its depiction of physical setting, of culture, of voice and atmosphere.  The dialogue rings true throughout the entire novel, authentic through the range of ages, not just Michael's twelve years from his teens to his late 20's but also the older voices, usually women.   And if the  narrator at times waxes a bit lyrical, it's easily explained away by his love of literature and his desire to be a writer.   <br />  Admittedly, the book's second half isn't as strong as its first.  A small subplot with Nick and his attempts to organize the workers didn't seem a complete success and  the book seems to flag a bit past the two-thirds point, losing somewhat its sense of energy or drive as it too literally mirrors the narrator's depression/ambivalence, his own lack of energy.  Fortunately,  it finds its voice again in the conclusion.   All in all, the lapses are minor in comparison to the strengths of the book.  Strongly recommended. <br />	2005-02-24
US	53074803	R2C27HPUUH4JN1	0765305232	393437308	Chainfire: Chainfire Trilogy, Part 1 (Sword of Truth, Book 9)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	better than last few, worse than first few--end in sight	The good news about Chainfire is that it is a much better than book than the previous one, Naked Empire.  The bad news is that Naked Empire set such a low standard that this isn't saying much.  Chainfire isn't awful, like Naked Empire.  It isn't even all that bad (except in parts).  But it also isn't all that good.  Mostly it's a serviceable novel moving us toward the series' end, one which probably should have come a few books ago. <br />  Starting with the positive . . . Chainfire manages to escape the awfulness of Naked Empire by actually having a sense of plot and character.  In fact, its premise is one of its best aspects and returns us to the excellence of the first few books.  The story begins with Richard waking from being healed and being the only one to remember Kahlan; somehow memory of her very existence has been wiped clean.  With the memories also goes the impact she has had on so many people, though much more gradually.  The rest of the book focuses almost exclusively on Richard's search for Kahlan in the face  of utter disbelief by those closest to him, who believe he has been damaged by his near-death experience and must be \\"healed\\" of his delusions.  As mentioned, the good news is that we are back to a relatively tight plot, one which is pretty fast-paced throughout most of the book.  The side plot involving Jagang's new villain \\"monster\\" in the story is also a nice touch of creativity, though not enough is done with it. <br />  While nothing new comes from Richard or the other stock characters in the book (Cara, Zebb, etc.), there is some further exploration of Nicci.  On the one hand, this return to focusing more on character than philosophy is a plus; on the other hand, her characterization is at times so simple that it is a negative. <br />  The final positive note is that Goodkind has cut down severely on his preaching in this book.  Unfortunately, it still isn't reduced enough and so the reader is beset by more long, obvious passages extolling Ayn Rand-style ideas of individualism, free will, the evil of altruism or socialism, etc.  To be absolutely clear here, I am not criticizing the philosophy itself (my views on it are irrelevant) nor stating that Goodkind has no right to put philosophy in his books.  What I am criticizing is his poor execution.  In almost every one of these types of situations, the story comes to a halt while Richard waxes faux-eloquent on the grandness of free will.  It is obvious, it is simplistic, it is repetitive, it is often contrived, it almost always drags the story to a stop. It's not bad writing because the philosophy is necessarily  bad; it's bad writing because the writing is so bad.  The only reason it is an improvement on Naked Empire is that there is less of it and it is surrounded  by story. <br />   If this were the only flaw, then Chainfire wouldn't be quite so disappointing.  Outside of the interesting premise, we've seen too much of this story before.  Richard and Kahlan separated, each one grittily holding to their \\"spirit\\", Richard pressured to do something he doesn't want to do, Cara's love of Richard imperiling her, the danger of prophecy, the speeches, and so on.  The books are losing their freshness and the series probably should have been condensed into five or six books and allowed to end there.  The characterization seems to be retreating as the hero-worship of Richard is getting to be a bit much.  Cara loves him, Nicci loves him, Shota loves him, the blacksmith loves him.  Again, with a little better writing, some sense of sophistication and depth to these relationships, Goodkind could have gotten away with this, but it's just too shallowly done.  Some of the plotting is a bit contrived and the obtuseness of some of the characters a bit hard to believe in places.  Finally,   I have to admit, the similarities to the Wheel of Time series are beginning to numb me a bit as a reader as I  try to recall to myself \\"am I remembering this from an earlier Goodkind novel or an earlier Jordan novel?\\"  The former head of a female order who pretends to be dead/powerless traveling with a former enemy/friend.  The books one can write in across distances.  The prophecies.  One begins to wonder if one has entered a parallel universe where The Wheel of Time doesn't exist but the same story has been written, just under a different title.   <br />   In the end, Chainfire probably seems a better book than it is just because the last few have been so  bad.  It's a step up compared to recent memory, but still a lower tier book when placed in relation to the early ones.  But it is readable, the speeches easily skimmed, and it is even enjoyable in much of it. Most importantly, it moves us toward a close, which has become a clear necessity.  <br />	2005-02-18
US	53074803	R3CFO70A586MU1	0743261828	101671786	About Grace: A Novel	Books	3	13	21	N	N	beautiful writing marred by pace	Since he was young, David Winkler has occasionally been visited by \\"true\\" dreams, visions of things that he will later witness.  When as an adult he begins dreaming of playing a role in his new daughter's drowning, he flees his rain-soaked home unsure of whether she is dead or alive and he doesn't stop running until he reaches a Caribbean island near St. Vincent, where he is taken in by a local family and becomes a father figure to their six-year-old girl.  About Grace begins with his flight home a quarter-century later.  Knowing nothing of his wife or daughter, his journey to find them will have him crossing the entire country, finally ending up in Alaska, his original home.    Before he left America, Winkler was a hydrologist/weather analyst and water in all its forms, but most especially snow, runs throughout the novel. The finest writing, in fact, often deals with water.  At times, however, this is as much a negative as much as it is a plus.  In the first hundred or so pages, the water references come flying at the reader in seemingly every paragraph (I exaggerate but only slightly), whether it be memory of his obsession with snow as a child, memories of a collection of photographs of snow, the days and nights of flooding, notes from Winkler's planned book about water, water on windows, glasses, doors, skin, eyeglasses, etc.  After not too short a time they become more distracting than anything else, screaming out for attention, not only for the frequency but for their often highly stylized writing style as well.  A lighter or at least more varied stylistic touch, a less frequent dipping into the well, a more balanced scattering throughout the book:  all of these would have helped.    The other problem is at times water seems to overshadow the main character, who at times is wonderfully plumbed to his depths and at other times seems a watery shallow puddle of a man.  There is relatively little examination of the effect on him of his early dreams beyond his relationship with his mother.  His burgeoning affair with his to-be wife (married to a banker where she is a teller) begins with beautiful, vivid detail as he meets her for the first time outside a dream (\\"tiny particles of dust drifting in the air between her ankles.\\").  And  his devotion to her, captured of course in watery terms, is conveyed equally well.  But there is little self-examination of his effect on a marriage, little sense of the sharp tension, so the whole thing plays a little bit unreal, more like an affair in a book than an actual affair.    With the birth of his daughter and the onset of his dreams, we enter another period of excellent, vivid writing, filled with an atmosphere of horror, desperation, suspense, and despair. It's some of the strongest writing in the whole book.    His time spent as a menial worker on the island has its best touches in the description of the natural world (the sun, the reef, the lagoon) and in the scenes between Winkler and his adoptive family's young daughter, Naaliyah.  We watch as he observes her grow from six into a young woman who eventually leaves the island.  Here too at times, some of the characterization seems a bit unreal, as for instance the all-positive \\"I'm a better person now that I'm using my hands\\" description of his menial work digging holes in the ground for hours a day. I can accept numbness, but his reflection on the positives shows he isn't numb.  That he never complains/notices the sun, blisters, etc (except in a single line). is just too hard to believe.     Eventually, Winkler will come to learn something about his dreaming, will return to the States to look for his wife and daughter though he has no idea if they are alive or dead, will reunite with Naaliyah in Alaska where she is studying entomology, will try to come to resolution with the man whose wife he ran away with so many decades ago, will, perhaps, learn something he didn't know about water, life, and himself.     This section, like the earlier ones, is filled with wonderful descriptive passages, though better balanced than in the book's beginning.  Some of the side characters come a bit more alive, especially Naaliyah's mother.  There remain some pacing problems, the book feels longer than it is, and it is not a short book.  And the main character remains still a bit too removed for my liking, a bit too formed and crystalline like the snowflakes he attempts to photograph.  While there are some emotional scenes, there weren't really too many moving ones, a surprise after his debut story collection.    I can't say he has fully transferred the strengths of his short stories into novel form.  In the end, I found the book's beautiful writing and intriguing storyline were almost if not quite negated by its slow and uneven pace, its sometimes artificial feel with regard to language and character, and the coolness of its main character. A book with lots of good writing, but I can't quite recommend it.	2005-02-13
US	53074803	RKMAIIL1RB4UO	0743260074	3749475	Sailors on the Inward Sea: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	beautifully structured and written	Sailors on the Inward Sea is narrated by seaman Jack Malone, Thornton's imagined model for Joseph Conrad's most famous character/narrator--Marlow.  In his memoir, written as if told to Ford Madox Ford, a friend common to both Conrad and Malone, Malone details how he became Marlow and what impact this had on his and Conrad's friendship.  In its examination of a famous author and how he appropriated story material from the lives of friends and family, Sailors is similar in theme to Colm Toiban's recent The Master, concerning Henry James.  My own preference is for Sailors, for several reasons. <br />  In both books, a foreknowledge of each author's texts, in this case Conrad's Heart of Darkness and Lord Jim, without a doubt makes the reading experience a more rich and rewarding one.  Because Sailors, however, is less focused so microscopically on the author,  a lack of knowledge of Conrad's work has less of a negative impact than I think holds true if one reads The Master without knowing James.  Thornton also does a nice job of quoting long passages from relevant works (admittedly such quotes are at times awkwardly introduced) to help the reader out when absolutely necessary. <br />  Appropriately for a novel with Conrad as much of its focus, there are layers within layers in Sailors. The book has several stories within stories:  Conrad's appropriation of Malone's own stories and Malone's first conversation with Conrad about this, a separate sea tragedy Conrad uses for a later tale, Malone's purchase of the Nellie (the famous ship that opens and closes Heart of Darkness), Malone's tragic love affair, Conrad's funeral, and so on.  All of these are neatly layered one within the other, opening up the story at just the right times. They also help to add some compelling interest to a story that could have felt a bit claustrophobic and self-referential.  What will happen to the fogged-in ship?  What will happen to the captain charged with ignoring the naval code?  Will Conrad's use of Malone destroy their friendship? What happened to Malone's girl who is mentioned but never seen?  These are simple plot questions that engage the reader beyond the literary and the abstract (another reason I preferred this book over The Master). <br />   The writing itself is beautiful, in its evocation of place and scene-the sun going down on a pier, the exotic settings of the East, a fog-enclosed ship moving out to sea-or equally so in its description of binding friendships and their inevitable loss over time.  Thornton examines a much wider world, a much  more common world than simply that of a famous author and his source material, and every reader, familiar or not with Conrad's work, will feel him/herself moved by many of the scenes.  Highly recommended for both Conrad fans and those not particularly familiar with Conrad but simply looking for a wonderfully written and constructed novel.	2005-02-08
US	53074803	R1N73VME55DWC9	0345441249	19657269	Dragonsblood (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	3	117	125	N	N	in the middle tier of Pern books, better than some later one	My theory on lengthy series is they tend to be divided into several tiers of quality:  great ones (usually early on), good ones that don't match the passion or excitement of the top ones, adequate ones that serviceably move the grand story along but aren't particularly original or well-written, and the bad ones that were just spit out because series fans would by them. Dragonsblood for the most part falls into the second category, with a few flaws that move it down a bit within that tier.     It isn't such harsh praise to say the book doesn't match the first two series (dragonflight/quest/singer/song/drums, White Dragon) since they were so good, but one does miss the deep characterization, the passion, the originality of those earlier works.  It's also not on par with some of the later \\"good-but-not-great\\" ones, such as All the Weyrs, but it does a decent job of storytelling within a familiar world.     Unfortunately, one of the flaws is that it's a bit too familiar plot-wise. We've seen much of Dragonsblood's story before:  the plague, the race against time for a cure, the use of timing it to heal wounded dragonriders, the girl who can hear all dragons, the intemperate and/or incompetent  weyrleader/weyrwoman who threatens the weyr's survival, found technology from the past helping out in the present, and perhaps most egregious, the use of a song from the past to inform the future of what they should be doing.  It would have been nice to have been given a more original storyline.    Dragonsblood tracks two time periods, the second generation after original colonization, focusing mostly on Wind Blossom, and 500 turns later, focusing on Lorana.  During threadfall, a plague strikes first dragonlizards and then dragons themselves, calling into the question the very survival of the humans on Pern.  Without going into how,  both time periods race to find a cure.  Wind Blossom and others must also figure out a way to get that cure to the future.  It's a more compelling and fast-paced plot than most of the later Pern books, and the time switches are handled well for the most part, with little confusion.  Some confusion does arise, however, from the sheer number of characters, many of whom seem a bit superfluous. Some judicious editing would have helped here.     The characters range from fully fleshed out ones such as Lorana and Wind Blossom to several who are more shallowly presented and a few who simply appear and disappear both in the text and in memory.    There are a few clumsy attempts to \\"explain\\" why things happen as they do in the future, those awkward \\"so that's why people call them that\\" moments that often occur in prequel  books.  Even worse, there are a few times where things seem to contradict earlier, accepted Pern history.  The suspension of disbelief at those moments is pretty hard.     The ending has a bit of a deus ex machina feel to it and is greatly burdened by the sudden influx of techno-speak.  Here again, it's hard to believe what is happening, as characters in a barely-technological society are suddenly spouting gene theory and actually performing experiments, and doing it all quickly and smoothly.  The ending, therefore, pulls the book down a bit in its rating.     In the end, while it has its many problems, Dragonsblood isn't a bad addition to the Pern canon, though it doesn't add much.  Since it's better than Dragon's Kin, the previous book and one which McCaffery worked on as well, the trend is towards improvement, which bodes well.  I'm not sure there are a lot of Pern stories left to tell (the overly familiar plot in this one gives pause), but with Dragonsblood's improvement over Dragon's Kin, McCaffery  junior shows he might be able to handle what ones are left.  Recommended for fans of the series, who won't be as disappointed as they've been with others.  But for newbies, go back and start with Dragonflight and read in publication order.  Then you'll understand why so many people flock to buy even theweaker ones.	2005-02-05
US	53074803	R6VACQHNC6QA8	0765312131	598325741	Ordermaster (Saga of Recluce)	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	decent read but same old same old	If Ordermaster and its prequel Wellspring of Chaos had come out as the first two books in the Recluse series, I'd have given them a slightly stronger review.  Ordermaster is decently paced, has a good strong main character, some interestingly complex politics as its background, and is overall pretty well-written.  But after reading a dozen Recluse books before these, one  has to wonder how many times can Modesitt tell this same story.  The problem in Ordermaster, besides the fact that we've seen this story so many times  before, is that the plot begins to feel repetitive even within the book itself, a problem that has already affected his shorter series, the Corean Chronicles.    To recap the general formula:  reluctant man of great but unpolished power gradually learns to use said power through a series of increasingly difficult tasks/battles in which he overcomes great odds at the cost of greater personal injury, much to the awe of those around him.  He grows more powerful and more reluctant each time, often due to an increasing distaste for the death he's caused.  In the end, he returns triumphant but battered to his humble abode where he'll humbly do some humble craft until humbly forced to humbly pick up yet again his hero mantle in the next book.     In this case, the humble hero is Kharl, the cooper turned mage/lord from the Wellspring of Chaos, where he helped Lord Ghrant of Austra overcome a rebellion led by  his brother.  In this book, Kharl must first help Lord Ghrant of Austra overcome a rebellion (helped in large part by the greedy Hamorian empire) and then in the second half return to his home of Brysta to help put down a rebellion led by one brother against another (helped in large part by the greedy Hamorian empire).  The manner in which he puts down both rebellions is as strikingly similar as the overall plot, use of the \\"sight shield\\" to slip unnoticed into enemy areas, use of \\"hardened air\\"  to kill enemies, turning back of \\"chaos fire\\" against the wizards who wield it, and so on.  It is only a slight exaggeration to say that if one simply copied fifty pages and then changed a few names, one would have the next fifty pages, and could continue to do so until all 400 pages were done.    What helps Ordermaster somewhat is the characterization, which though familiar is also nicely done for the most part.  And a few of the side-stories are well-done as well. And if you haven't read other Modesitt books, it's a decent enough story, though too repetitive.    With each \\"new\\" book of Recluse, I hope more and more for an actual original story and I grow more and more disenchanted.  I've moved Modesitt from the \\"buy the book\\" category to the \\"get at the library\\" one because of the repetition of story and character, and he's on the edge of being added to the \\"don't bother reading because you've seen it all before\\" category.  Ordermaster doesn't do anything to change that.	2005-02-05
US	53074803	R27BE3WLXQEZ46	0743250400	372341668	The Master	Books	3	106	119	N	N	Well-written but not very compelling	The Master is one of those books you just hate yourself for not liking more.  There's the guilt of not enjoying a book about a \\"Great Writer\\", the guilt of not enjoying a book despite its beautiful writing, the guilt over not liking a \\"year's best\\" book, etc.  But the truth is, The Master, while an enjoyable read, wasn't a particularly enjoyable story.   <br />  I love books where \\"nothing really happens\\", but in this case, it really felt like nothing was happening, in the book or in the reader's mind.  I could appreciate the book on all sorts of intellectual levels:  it is beautifully written in many places, the structure (an episodic tour of James' relationships that never became relationships) is well-paced and well-balanced, Toibin himself is a \\"master\\" at the small, quiet scenes of character and poignant action (or inaction).  And I like the whole setup of revealing a man's character through a web of interactions with others, especially one whose interactions are so passive. But emotionally the book never had an impact.  And the story never grabbed me, or even tugged at the sleeve.  It was, admittedly, a struggle to finish it and I read several other books while doing so. <br />  One needn't have read James' to follow the book, though certainly it adds a richness to the text if one has some familiarity.  For those who do not, Toibin does a decent job of giving thumbnail sketches of stories and novels, though sometimes it feels a bit clumsy, especially in the repetitive pattern of James seeing something, than telling himself, \\"I will write a story about . . . \\" and the reader plays \\"I can guess that story in X words.\\"    There is also something a bit too mechanical and clinical in how James' creative process is presented.  <br />   If one hasn't read James and has little interest in him, then the book does work as a wonderfully surgical character study, focused on many quiet moments, a book filled with hints and implications and undertones and half-starts and no-starts.  But it worked only as a character study for me and while I didn't need a car chase, I did need more than James' repeated pattern of hesitant passivity to keep me wanting to read on.  If anything, the book slows even more at the end, when it begins to focus a bit more on his immediate family, all of whom captured my interest even less than James' non-familial relationships. <br />  The Master is certainly not a bad book, it is in many respects an excellent book, but for me, it was not an interesting book, and so I just can't recommend it despite its writing strengths.  More guilt to deal with.	2005-02-04
US	53074803	R3926PY5ZQ171J	0441012655	189215652	One for Sorrow, Two for Joy	Books	2	15	17	N	Y	nice idea, weakly and palely executed	One for Sorrow is one more in the vein of animal kingdom books, the classic one of course being Watership Down.  Sorrow doesn't approach the skill, majesty, or emotion of Watership Down but that's hard to fault it for as few books do.  The problem is not that it doesn't hold up well against a classic but that it doesn't hold up well against your average book either.  <br />  The story's premise is sound enough. Birdom is threatened by a great evil in the form of marauding magpies committing genocide against the other species. One lone robin, seemingly the last of his kind, is sent by a Great Wise Owl, part of the Great Council, on a quest to enlist the aid of three other Bird families.  The second half of the book continues the story, though on a smaller, less epic framework (to say more would be to give away too much of the first plot). <br />  The book has its stock characters:  the heroic against the odds robin (Kirrick), the wise old mentor willing to sacrifice himself if necessary (Tomar the owl), the just-as-plucky-as-the hero female (Portia, Kirrick's mate), the roguish ally cracking wise (a goldfinch), the evil overlord (Slyekin) and his as-evil aide (Traska), as well as the usual crew of unexpected allies in strange places who pop up as needed. <br />  The plot too is pretty as expected, with the journeys (three of course) coming one after the other, the lone small hero against a more numerous, more vicious group, the falling in love, and so on.  The moral is worthwhile (aren't they all) but pretty clearly Meant To Be Learned.  The most unexpected plot points are also the most graphic and most violent (including a brutal rape scene), and seem out of place in comparison to the rest of the tone.  Other minor surprises are more the product of contrivance than a natural outgrowth of story or character. <br />   The premise and characters have potential, if predictably so, but the whole thing is so shallowly and predictably presented as to bleach the book of anytrue impact.  Characters do not grow, we are told way too much as opposed to being shown, and events, especially in Book 2,  are often anti-climatic for their build up.  The biggest downfall, however, is that one just doesn't care much for the characters; they're just too sketchily drawn, too stock, too predictable.  Add that to little spark in either language or narrative and the book as a whole is disappointing and at times dully so.  If one is interested in reading animal world books such as this one, try Watership Down if you haven't already done so (even re-reading it would be a better use of time) or Rabbit Hill or Duncton Wood ).  Not recommended.	2005-01-29
US	53074803	R2CJP40E9TMCD9	0805068333	630393030	Prince Edward: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	likable, fast-paced, good voice, sharp detail	Price Edward enters into familiar territory with the coming-of-age in the racist South novel, set in this case in Prince Edward county after they have decided to close their public schools and open private ones rather than integrate.  Here the narrator is 10-yr-old Benjamin Rome, whose family include (take a breath):  a pregnant, married-to-absent-husband-and-not-in-love older sister; a thieving, rakishly charming, on-the-surface-racist-but-somewhat-more-complex-underneath older brother; a distant, harsh segregationist father and more-softly distant sorrowful mother (neither of whom is happy in marriage); and finally, Big Daddy Cary-his grandfather, the sternly crazy or crazily stern patriarch of the family who also happens to be a child molester.  Not family but deeply in the mix as well are the Black family who live in the Cary's tenant house:  Ben's childhood friend Burghardt who faces the prospect of no school, Burghardt's dad Julian who works for Ben's father, and Burghardt's grandmother, sorrow and dignity personified. <br />   McFarland is working within a well-known genre here, which causes some difficulties, a genre which unfortunately for others has a true classic within it (To Kill a Mockingbird).  This is not as moving or as deeply felt as Mockingbird, but of course that could be said about 99 percent of the books out there.  And Prince Edward has its major differences with Lee's book.  In Mockingbird, Scout's family fights the good fight whereas Ben is surrounded by a family who is all over the map:  his father and grandfather are segregationists, actively so.  His brother seems to be on the surface, but, without giving details, is shown to be a much more complex read than that.  His mother seems just out of it, happily oblivious, while his older sister rages in frustration, declaring at one point that their racist actions (or tolerance of such) literally is making her physically sick.  On the other side, Burghardt is just coming of an age to understandhow raw the feelings of most whites toward him are (one of the more moving scenes is when he finally understands this), Julian is of the \\"take what you have and don't complain to make things worse\\" mode, and Granny is a model of dignity and fortitude and intelligence.    Within that mix, Benjamin finds it hard to find his moorings, and in fact, one of the nice touches of the novel is that he never fully does, at least not at that age, to the dismay of  his older narrating self. <br />   The characters are mostly sharply drawn as one would expect from McFarland, descriptions are all vividly detailed with wonderful small touches, and people act as people act, rather than act to serve the purpose of plot or theme.  A problem is that working in such a familiar genre means some of the characters are just that, a bit too familiar:  the persistently dignified older Black woman, the fawning Black man, the crazy old patriarch, etc.  I'm not sure McFarland completely solves this problem. <br />   The subplot with Big Daddy Cary, Ben's grandfather, makes for a nice parallel story to the larger issues,  but at times seems a bit too pat for that purpose.  It feels both utterly believable and natural and also a bit contrived.  His sister's story with regard to her husband and her pregnancy on the other hand seems to work better, though some may find it overkill. <br />   The book is well-paced, a quick read, with some moving scenes, a nice complexity of character and situation, and an ending that is, if not fully resolved or happy, more true to life.  And the voice is consistently spot on throughout.   If McFarland doesn't transcend the genre, he does make good use of it, turning it to his own purposes for the most part.  Recommended.	2005-01-25
US	53074803	R3816F9PDGFLWU	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	great standalone book, start of a very good series	With the recent Sci- Fi Channel miniseries, there is bound to be renewed interest in LeGuin's classic first book in her Earthsea series, as there should be.  This remains a classic fantasy for good reason. The world within which the characters move is fully developed, having a sense of past, present and future as well as a sense of a larger \\"there there\\", as opposed to some fantasies that feel like a  Hollywood stage set, as if nothing exists beyond the narrow social/geographical worlds the characters move through.  Such is not the case with Earthsea.  One feels it is real from the start and the ensuing books in the series only deepen that feeling with regard to its social and political structures, its people, its mythic past. <br />   The characters are equally strong, especially Ged, the young boy who grows to adulthood in true coming-of-age fashion--through pain, loss, self-destruction, and eventual slow growth of wisdom.  The depiction of his younger years as he first learns of his wizardly power and potential, apprentices to a single wizard then rejects that slow, dull path in order to attend the more exciting wizardry school (do not think Harry Potter here, style, tone, and environment are quite different) is right on.  He is impatient, cocky, self-sure, quick to anger, impulsive, moody. In short, he is an adolescent.  As such he has no time for the slow pace of his masters, for their constant warnings about the \\"balance\\"  (the universe is in constant equilibrium and one change someplace effects another change, for good or ill, somewhere else) and its restrictions on use of power. The idea of the balance is the  more you know, the less likely you are to act. Ged, in impetuous and realistic fashion sees it as the more you know, the more you can act. <br />  As one might expect, his blithe self-confidence sets him up for a major fall, as he accidentally opens a portal, allowing an unknown \\"shadow\\" to enter the world.  Roughly the first half of the book leads upto this event, the second half follows what happens afterward, as Ged is hunted by the evil he has let into the world, an evil that can cause great harm unless he does something about it.  Along the way, he slowly grows in wisdom (the steps toward adulthood are gradual but nicely marked), helped along by his former tutor whom he rejected for his dull passivity and his closest friend from the wizard's school at Roke, Vetch. <br />   The end, without giving details away, is simply perfect in its resolution, in its tone, and in its complexity.  Don't expect simplistic happy ending or heroic battles against overwhelming odds; this is a personal journey, a personal victory, though it has larger repercussions. <br />    The book succeeds in pretty much all it does.  Its world creation is rich and full and three-dimensional. Its characters are sharply detailed, realistic, complex beings.  Its plot exciting, its language vivid (sometimes classified as  young adult--I'm not sure why--it does not talk down to a perceived younger audience, in terms of complexity of language or philosophy).  And in the best test of a good book, it leaves the reader wanting much more; luckily LeGuin provides with several more books in the series.  Very highly recommended.	2005-01-22
US	53074803	R12FRKFSE1W9AH	0393059081	246720252	Ideas of Heaven: A Ring of Stories	Books	2	10	18	N	N	stories too uniform, little spark of language or idea	Ideas of Heaven is the third of the National Book Award nominees I've read recently, and while the other two (Madeline is Sleeping and Our Kind) did not particularly impress me (gave both a 3), each still had its strong moments. The same can't be said about Ideas of Heaven, whose nomination I admit I just can't fathom.   <br />  As the title implies, the stories are somehow connected, most obviously by character.  In the first, the main character takes lessons from a bitter dance instructor who then becomes the narrator for the second story and so on through the book. There are also clear connections in theme and subject, especially love and loss.  The structure therefore is gimmicky, though it needn't  have felt as such.  Cloud Atlas, a far better book, has a slightly different but similar structure, but it feels woven into the work, amplifying the stories' strengths rather than simply calling attention to itself. Here, in Ideas of Heaven, the gimmick feels like a gimmick because it doesn't seem to add much.  Yes, the second story clarifies why the dance instructor acts as he does in the first, but the payoffs never seem worth the structure. <br />  The structure, however, is the least of the problems here.  The stories are all first person narrations, almost all dealing with love and loss.  This sameness of point-of-view and theme is risky; careful attention needs to be paid to ensure that the stories differentiate themselves in voice and style. Unfortunately, this doesn't happen.  Though the stories are set in different locales and different times, the narrators themselves are extremely repetitive, sounding like the same person again and again.  The one true exception to this is the title story, also the best and most effective story in the collection.  Coming as it does near the end, however, and being a mere exception rather than the rule, it doesn't do enough to save the book.  <br />  Another problem that runs through the work is too often the author falls into the first-person trap of telling the reader things rather than showing them.  Characters are constantly telling the reader they are in love, or they are deeply stricken, etc. but it would have been better to have seen/felt these developments rather than hear of them, and in some cases I simply didn't believe them.  In terms of style, the writing is serviceable with a few wonderful lines, but is nothing out of the ordinary and so can't overcome the problems with voice and structure.   <br />  My usual comment about a book of stories is that it is uneven, often an admittedly obvious point to make since it's rare that someone can string together 8-15 excellent stories.  One always hopes that the balance tips toward the positive (preferably heavily so), but even when it does not, when it is more evenly split or even tilts negative, there are usually a few gem stories that one can recommend someone pick up the book for.  Sadly, that's not the case here.  You should weigh this review against the fact that this book was nominated for a major award (a fact that still stuns me), but for this reader, a recommendation to skip this one.	2005-01-17
US	53074803	R1UO8KJSH38US5	0765303620	306611472	The Nameless Day: Book One of 'The Crucible'	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Major flaws  but somehow kept me going	The Nameless Day is a difficult book to review as there was so much I didn't like about it.  To begin with, the main character is extremely unlikable, which isn't an automatic mark against a book, but when the character stays so consistently unlikable for such a long time, it does get a bit wearying.  We see some slight glimpses of a better man here and there more towards the end, but following Thomas Neville through several hundred pages can seem a bit of a chore.  Worse for me were the many inconsistencies within the book of plot and character.  Just to give one example, at one point Thomas is berated and mocked by a small group for having traipsed around much of Europe due to some visions from St. Michael.  Then only  a few pages later, the same group listens as Thomas tells them of demons and his visions and they all believe him wholeheartedly because according to the author, they had been trained from birth to do so.  The two seem pretty mutually exclusive to me and I still can't reconcile the disparate actions beyond the author's  need to have the plot go in certain directions so she has characters act any way necessary.  One more example--once this group does wholeheartedly believe in the demons and Thomas' vision, they seem surprisingly passive with regard to them.  This sort of inconsistency runs throughout the book and is infuriating in places.  <br />   Yet somehow, once I got past the first 100 pages, during which I several times considered just stopping, the book did get hold of me somehow, even though I kept marking its flaws.  Part of it was an interest in whether Thomas would grow in character.  Another was an interest in the God/Angels vs. Demons and which was good which was bad plot.  And to be honest, much, if not even most, was when characters I've always been interested in such as Prince Hal and Hotspur and Richard etc. started to make regular appearance.  I can't say if those not in the English teacher-Shakespeare reader mold that I come from would find the book as interesting. <br />  The strengths of the book, besides picking some interesting historical/dramatic characters, are its historical setting/detail and its ability to keep the reader guessing a bit with regard to character motivations, with a lot of unclear or shifting alliances and desires.  The weaknesses are the aforementioned inconsistencies, the almost unrelenting negativity of the main character, and some hard to swallow plot points/premises.   <br />   I'll read the second book, as it continues to move into a period of history I enjoy, but I hope it's better constructed.  As for this one, recommended but barely, with a lot of misgiving.	2005-01-14
US	53074803	R34XJSO8AQN3I8	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	2	9	9	N	N	In the weaker tier of Hillerman's books	Anyone with such a long-running series as Hillerman has in the Navajo books is almost bound to suffer from a spectrum of quality.  Some will be excellent, some good, some adequate, and some just bad.  Usually, the trend is downward, as evidenced by several of the more recent Hillerman's and especially Sinister Pig.  The good news on Skeleton Man is that it is better than Sinister; the bad news is that it only achieves the barely adequate level one step above. <br />   Fans will recognize the familiar plot by now:  Leaphorn and Chee work at different angles on the same case, puzzling pieces start to come together  (often in the reader's mind first as he/she as access to both Leaphorn and Chee), Leaphorn muses on retirement, Chee muses on love, Native American myths pop up now and then, more pieces fall together, physical danger comes into play, the case is solved. <br />   The structure and plot are familiar, but lacking in comparison to earlier novels.  Leaphorn is barely present, though he starts off the book by introducing the already-solved case at a morning coffee (the rest is flashback).  The introduction seems an awkward way to give him more time as nothing is added by having the case told in one long flashback form (we return to present time only at the very end).  Worse, Leaphorn's actions in the case itself seem utterly superfluous, having little to no impact on other characters' action or on any of the results.  And one section allowing Leaphorn some more \\"dramatic\\" lines with regard to age and mortality seems completely contrived.  All in all, he could have been removed from the book at no loss, a sad statement for fans of the series and of this particular character. <br />   While Chee has more booktime, it is not enough, as much of the book focuses on several of the adversarial characters, none of whom ring true as worthy adversaries or even as good characters.  The sections on Native American mythology and local setting, strengths of Hillerman's earlier work, seem tacked on here.  In other novels they permeate the story, either as wonderfully atmospheric background or as components integral to the plot.  Here they come in a few strung together paragraphs now and then and seem more a nod to the fan who is looking for them than truly woven into the story. <br />   In the end, the plot is repetitive in places, contrived in others, and at times really seems a bit unbelievable.  All of this may have been saved anyway by the fondness we've accumulated for these characters, but they aren't fully present enough for that fondness to compensate.  Skeleton Man isn't an awful book, but it isn't a very good one, and for Hillerman fans, it's a very disappointing one.  Recommended for die-hards just to keep up with the characters with the warning to not expect much.  Certainly not a book to recommend to start the series. <br />	2005-01-14
US	53074803	RP3OQR6IYOKGO	0385512163	947920742	Men and Cartoons: Stories	Books	3	5	6	N	N	The expected mix of quality from a story collection	Men and Cartoons, like almost all story collections, has its hits and misses. The fact that it's a relatively slim book unfortunately means that the misses weigh it down a bit more than they would have in a more full collection.  I also found it true that even the better stories weren't fully successful, lacking a sense of true depth or simply petering out in the end.   <br />  The first story and second to last stories (The Vision and Super-Goat Man) are probably the strongest in the collection and both, as will seem familiar to Lethem fans, draw upon comics as some source material.  Both have a sense of underlying menace and tension as well as sorrow, part of the reason why they stand out amongst the others.  In the Vision, the  main character reunites at a dinner party with a fifth-grade classmate who used to dress up as and claim to be the Marvel superhero android of the title. The party games turn ugly and the narrator tries to use his knowledge against his former classmate.  I would have preferred a stronger sense of motivation for the main character's actions; it seems to come off as rushed, more contrived for narrative purpose than growing out of a sense of the character, but despite that this remained one of my favorites.  Super Goat Man has a somewhat similar tone and even narrative, but is longer and thus allows for more development.  The other strong story, Access Fantasy,  is also the most science-fiction like, set in a world where the lower class literally live in long-standing traffic jams-sleeping, cooking, and watching \\"apartment porn\\", videos of the dwellings inhabited  by the upper class.  There are lots of nice touches in this one and a good sense of satire and humor, though the ending paled a bit in comparison to the rest of the story. <br />  Luckily those three make up a large part of the whole work, since the rest of the stories seemed to drop down several levels in quality and thought.  Many of them seemed more skeletons of stories than stories themselves, and several of them too cute and/or too predictable. <br />   All in all, it was a relatively disappointing work saved by the fact that its best stories were also its longest ones and the two best pretty much bookended the collection, so one started off well and ended well, leaving the weaker stories in the middle somewhat forgotten (another indictment of their quality I suppose).  Recommended for the three good ones with the usual short story caveat that you'll find some of lesser quality.	2005-01-09
US	53074803	RF2BDGP2VN493	0151010617	492282640	The Courage Consort: Three Novellas	Books	3	3	4	N	N	3 stories--very good, so-so, and not-so-good	One expects unevenness from any collection of stories/novellas, but when there are only three, the burden falls even harder on the author and here Faber doesn't quite carry it off; one or two weaker stories out of a collection of a half-dozen or more isn't so  bad, but one or two out of three (as in the case of The Courage Consort) makes the work as a whole a disappointment. <br />   The title story, the first in the collection, is about the eponymous singing group who has come together in a Belgian chateau to practice a difficult  modern piece they are to perform at an upcoming festival.  The focus is on Catherine Courage, the group's soprano, wife to the group's leader and a woman attempting to recover  from the midst of a depression which has her suicidal and medicated, not to mention estranged from her husband and life in general. This is the first time the group has stayed together and the ensuing tensions and revelations give Faber opportunity to explore in all sorts of nice small ways the interactions among the group, some comic, some much more poignant.  The story seemed just a bit too long to me, the supernatural element a bit superfluous, but in the end I thought it succeeded, although I wouldn't call it a great story. <br />  The middle novella is the weakest of the three and painfully so in places.  Here the main character is a woman named Sian who has joined an archaeological dig at an Abbey in England.  Lonely, self-conscious about her leg and an unexplained lump she has found recently, and bothered by repetitive dreams of being strangled, she is sparked to life somewhat by Mack, a \\"quite fit\\" doctor she runs into one morning.  Mack shows her an old scroll his father had found and with his permission she begins to carefully (thus slowly) unwind and read it, revealing an old murder.  Whatever the merits of the story (and I found them few), I couldn't get past Sian's internal monologues or the dialogues between the two main characters, which seemed to meto  be surprisingly stilted and unbelievable in both character and language choice.  I never bought into the characters' speeches, motivations, or situations and thus the story simply dragged painfully on. <br />   The final story is the shortest and also the best I thought.  As with the other two, there is a sense of menace and the supernatural, but the story's tone is more fabulist than the others and so the effect seems to enhance the story rather than call notice to itself.  The Fahrenheit Twins deals with the so-named twins and their journey to dispose of the body of their recently deceased mother, a journey made difficult by the fact that they live in an Arctic wasteland (their parents were/are anthropologists)  and even more difficult by the fact that their father, unknownst to them, prefers they not return.  There is a sparse beauty in the language throughout and a wonderful matter-of-fact tone.  The story gets a little too cute perhaps at the very end, but it has little effect on the overall enjoyment. <br />   The last story in fact is so good that it tips the balance toward recommending the book, despite the flaws of the others, though the recommendation has to remain a weak one.  More enthusiastically, I recommend picking the book up and reading the last story first, then going back to the beginning with the feeling that you can put it down at any point knowing you've already read the best thing in it.	2005-01-08
US	53074803	R387SYE7IA90XK	006076340X	92756786	The Final Solution: A Story of Detection	Books	5	78	86	N	N	exquisitely compact and realized	Exquisite is the best word I can come up with to describe The Final Solution, in the sense of something whose reward is so much larger than its size- a gem, or one of those delicate hors d'oeuvres whose taste lingers so finely in your mouth you don't want to eat or drink for a while. <br />  It might be best to describe what The Final Solution is not.  It isn't \\"Sherlockian\\" in the sense of an attempt to write another Conan Doyle story.  It isn't a mystery in the sense that solving the \\"crime\\" is the focus of the story.  Anyone  looking for those will probably be disappointed. <br />  It is, however, a beautifully written, often melancholy or elegiac work, with a love of character and language and atmosphere.   <br />   The story takes place in 1944. Holmes is a retired 89-year-old beekeeper, the war still drags on in horrific fashion, Hitler's greatest crimes are becoming known.  In the midst of Holmes' solitary life drops a mute nine-year-old Jewish boy and his numbers-spouting parrot, both refugees from Germany. When a local man is killed and the parrot taken, Holmes is asked by the local police to assist.  He does, but not for possibly great matters involved (the parrot's recitations might be codes, might be bank numbers, etc.) but to reunite the boy and his sole friend.  Along the way we see Holmes' fabled mind at work, but also see the slow rebellion of his aging body.  We begin to wonder too, with Holmes, if in this world of war and genocide if there remains a place for such order and reason as he symbolizes, if lines can still be traced through application of cause and effect, reason and sense. <br />  The book is just over a hundred pages long, so Chabon doesn't delve heavily into such things for pages and pages, but it is enough to cast a sort of sepia, sad light over the work as a whole.  The language is beautiful throughout, and the characterization of Holmes sharply poignant and loving.  It is a quick read in its brevity and relative simplicity of plot,but the tone and atmosphere slow you down a bit (in a good way) and the language and characterization make you want to linger even more.  Highly recommended.	2005-01-08
US	53074803	R366BXOFQ5UAM3	0151010595	25054700	Madeleine Is Sleeping	Books	4	8	12	N	N	flawed but pulls you along, sometimes tries too hard, weak 4	Madeleine is Sleeping is one of those strange novels that you can't quite pin down.  The language is poetic in many places, yet sometimes strives too hard to be so and therefore is both a plus and minus.  The plot doesn't really do much as plots normally do, yet it's just interesting enough in just enough places that it pulls you along in fits and starts and so is in various places a plus and in others a minus.  The characters don't ever really grab you as fully fleshed characters, never really evoke much empathy, yet they're just off the wall enough and just poignant enough in spots that you feel you'd kind of miss them if they just disappeared.  The meanings within meanings are sometimes thought-provoking or simply fun while at other times they are startlingly and awkwardly obvious.  The structure, a lot of little vignettes surrounded by a lot of white space works for the purposes of the novel, but at the same time feels a bit too gimmicky.  And the whole thing strikes you at times as wonderfully original and playful, and at other times like a grad student trying too hard and too obviously to be wonderfully original and playful.   <br />    In the end, I'd say Madeleine is Sleeping is worth  a read (perhaps partially because it's such a slim book with so much white space that one doesn't invest much actual time in reading it) since its pleasures generally do outweigh its negatives.  But be prepared to veer between highs and lows every few pages.  There's never really a long lag, but then there's never really a long stretch where you don't wince once or twice either.  Recommended, but not enthusiastically.	2005-01-01
US	53074803	RX196UWWUAAQN	0743245598	665972346	Our Kind: A Novel in Stories	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Mixed though strongly effective in places	Anyone who picks up a collection of short stories knows going in that the stories will probably be uneven in quality, that the odds of the author hitting her mark in all of them is pretty slim.  Running a group of stories together so that they focus on the same group of characters in the same setting can help increase the sense of narrative, the sense of concern over characters we see repeated, but it is no less open to the same problem as any group of disparate stories--unevenness.  That's the case here with Our Kind, despite its being labeled a novel. <br />   The interconnected stories detail the lives (past, present, and impending future) of  a group seldom highlighted in such compassionate terms-well-off divorced women who came of age in the 50's and are now in their later years, musing on husbands who left, daughters who came and went, past lovers, past opportunities, past crafting moments.  In the best of the stories, there is a truly heavy sadness and poignancy about the characters and their situations.  In the less effective stories, the reader sees them at best indifferently, at worst as near-caricatures or cliches.  The plots vary as well, some tightly focused and sharp, others seeming a bit light. <br />    Walber uses the group as a collective narrator, though each has their individual stories and moments.  On the one hand, the characters tend to get lost as individuals, lessening the impact of the various tales.  Many of them end up a bit airy, a bit ephemeral.  On the other hand, one gets a greater feel for, as the title puts it, \\"their kind\\".   And this sense of kind rather than person grows cumulatively as each story is related, whatever the quality of the individual stories.  Overall, the style varies nicely from lyrical and poetic (especially in descriptions of landscape marked by time or the descriptions of the daughters) to sharp and oh so dry.  While the more dry and/or somewhat bitter parts will have you chuckling or laughing out loud, it is the more lyrical and sad portions dealing with the many ravages of time (daughters grown up and distant, friends lost to death and disease, the loss of beauty, etc.) that are the true heart and strength of the book.  The passages surrounding watching the daughters grow up I thought were by far the strongest and made the book worth reading on their own, despite its flaws. <br />   Individually, as mentioned the stories vary in quality.  Some are simply exceptional, others seem flat or at times a bit forced/cute.  The good outweigh the bad, but it's a slim book and more than one of the stories are weak, thus the mixed review.  To make matters worse, the concluding story is perhaps the weakest, or is at least one of the weaker ones, so the book leaves you feeling a bit disappointed.   <br /> It's a very quick read, and its pleasures are many.  In the end, I wanted to know at least a few of the characters more intimately and wanted a much, much stronger conclusion.  Recommended highly for the strong portions, which as I said make it well worth the read, but with the caveat that the effect as a whole is a mixed bag.	2004-12-19
US	53074803	R1WSC4NOXIRQX3	0439650755	462172654	Gregor and the Prophecy of Bane (The Underland Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	strong followup to good first novel	The Prophecy of Bane continues the strengths displayed in Collins' first book in the series, Gregor the Overlander.  The book moves along quickly and smoothly with few if any slow spots; the major characters, if not minutely detailed, have enough personality and reality to hold one's interest and concern; and the setting, which as in the first is probably the weakest element in terms of vividness, is at least interesting enough in general terms so that its lack of detail is not much of a flaw. <br />  As in book one, Gregor enters the Underworld to save a family member.  In book one it was his father; here it is his little sister Boots.  One sees the freshness and originality early on in the book as the quest quickly changes from what the reader first assumes it will be--the search for Boots--to a more dark journey:  Gregor's quest to hunt down and kill alone the Bane (the prophesied future king of the Rats).  Without giving things away, there are other such surprises in store for the reader; not just surprises of plot but also surprises of genre, so one doesn't feel stuck in the same old young adult fantasy quest rut.  The book is also darker than most young fantasy, and the darkness runs from start to finish, beginning with the fact that (as opposed to what one would expect in the genre) not all is well since Gregor's \\"successful\\" rescue of his father in book one.  His father hasn't come close to recovering and the family is paying both an emotional and economic price. This sort of reality, and the attention paid to long-term effects (with his father's illness as well as other events from book one) is one of the ways Gregor is distinguishable from much of what is out there.  Another way is how death is not simply an abstract idea in this book but a solid and saddening presence.   <br />  The end or near-end is a bit weak in comparison to the rest of the book as it seems to have Gregor acting a bit unbelievably with only a nod to contriving an explanation (more detail would ruin a surprise).  That's the only major weakness in the novel.  Once again, a few of the characters could be more fully formed, the setting certainly could be more fully detailed, but one understands why Collins may have traded detail for speed and in reality, the flaws are relatively minor in comparison to how the story and main characters hold interest.  Some of the lack of detail is also clearly intentional, as at least one more Gregor book is obviously on the way.  If the first two are any judge, one can hope for even more.  Strongly recommended for \\"older\\" young readers.  Younger ones can certainly follow the book, but the context and setting (an world at their feet filled with giant mankilling rats) along with the few deaths might be a bit much--parents are the best judge.  The parents themselves, however, might be pleasantly surprised by how  much they enjoy it if they pick it up.	2004-12-13
US	53074803	R10Q01B7XLKKSL	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	well-deserving of award nomination, highly recommended	While awards are for some guides as to which books to read, for others they can serve as a warning that the novels are \\"too literary\\", all art and artifice and no story.  Witness the recent dust-up over the National Book Awards.  It's easy to see how some might think the same of Cloud Atlas.  Nominated for several awards, including  the heavyweight Booker prize, written by an author known for his \\"literariness\\", and constructed in a non-linear fashion, the novel runs the risk of being ruled out at the outset by many.  That would be too bad, however, for the book is a perfect example of how craft and storytelling are not mutually exclusive. <br />   The structure, as mentioned, is unusual, taking the form of six stories linked mostly if not solely by theme and told in chronological order.  That isn't all, however.  Each story is abruptly interrupted by the one following, until one reaches the middle of the book and the sixth story, after which the stories are completed in reverse order.  The form sounds much more gimmicky than it reads (and serves a purpose beyond the gimmicky) and is not at all difficult to follow.    The structure is part of the book's pleasure, offering up the simple pleasures of varied story/style and cliffhanger endings, along with the more complex pleasure involved in tracing the connections wending between all the stories. <br />  The stories span centuries, styles, and genres.  They are told as diaries, as letters, as interrogation; they are set in the 19th, 20th, and 22nd centuries; they mimic the style of mystery, science-fiction, travelogue.  They all share strong characters, strong voices, a sense of humor and one of sorrow.  They can be equally funny and poignant.  As one might expect when there are six separate stories, some are perhaps stronger than others, but that is more testament to any single story's strength rather than indictment of any story's weakness. Even then, the differences between them are slight and it wouldn't surprise me if readers disagreed about which are the better ones.  Each is in its own right a compelling, well-told story, though all are improved upon and deepened by the connections between them. If there is any slowing in the book, it probably will come in the most futuristic story, which is told in a stylized slang that simply because of its unfamiliarity will cause more reading difficulty than the previous stories.  That said, it is not all that difficult (there is, for instance, no need of a glossary as in Clockwork Orange) to follow, it gets easier as one reads it, and the story shares the same strengths of character and plot with the others, making the extra work (little as it is) well worth it. <br />  Cloud Atlas is a thoroughly enjoyable read on many, many levels.  People who pick it up for its pedigree of awards and past authorial history might be surprised by the genre aspect (\\"how did I end up reading science fiction?\\").  People who pick it up despite rather than because of its pedigree might be surprised by its accessibility, by the compelling nature of the various plots.  In either case, it will be a pleasant surprise for both. Highly and strongly recommended.	2004-12-09
US	53074803	R3AM957KUSMZ7L	0060583045	148985284	Troll Fell	Books	3	4	5	N	N	a bit pallid but for Norse background, for younger readers	Troll Fell is a decent young adult book whose Norse background gives a more fresh feel to an otherwise relatively mundane plot and set of characters. Younger readers will most likely enjoy it if not be inspired or captured by it; older readers won't find much to chew on. <br /> The story follows young Peer Ulfsson who upon his father's death is grabbed up (literally) by a pair of wicked ogrish uncles for their own hidden reasons, the most transparent of which is to use him as free labor at their run-down mill, no longer frequented by the local villagefolk who have grown tired of being cheated by the uncles.  Troll Fell is also the story of similarly aged Hilde, whose family, besides having been cheated by the uncles, has a long-running feud with them over a parcel of land under which lies the local troll kingdom (and its gold).  Year's ago, Hilde's father managed to escape from the underground kingdom with his life and a great golden cup and Peer's uncles have lusted after both the cup and the untapped gold it represents ever since then.   When Hilde's father leaves the family to go off Viking, the uncles' plots begin to accelerate and they leave no doubt that both Peer and Hilde will rue the day those plots come to fruition. <br />  The story moves along pretty quickly if not with a lot of spark. Scenes and characters are solidly portrayed if not particularly original or inspired. The uncles are the \\"starve the lad and don't spare the rod\\" sort of evil stepparents one would expect. Hilde and Peer are the grit-your-teeth and forge ahead despite your fears young folks we've seen before. <br />  What adds a bit more flavor to the book are its less-often seen Norse-derived creatures. Rather than the usual elves and horsefolk etc., we have trolls and the Niss (a household spirit) and Granny Greenteeth (a shapechanging underwater spirit), among others.  The trolls are a bit flat but Granny and the Nis are both well-done and the whole Norse atmosphere gives the story a more unique feel to it.  The other nice touch is the relationship between the two young characters and their dogs; scenes between them, in fact, might be the most emotional and best written of the whole story. <br />    While some young adult literature is rich enough for older teen and adult enjoyment, I think Troll Fell falls a bit short of that.  Younger readers will find some suspense, older ones I suspect will see things coming and perhaps even get frustrated that Peer and Hilde do not.  And neither the character development nor the plot are really rich enough or compelling enough for older experience. <br />  In the end, it's a well-tapped story which seems a bit less tired due to its setting. A pleasant read for younger readers if not much beyond that.	2004-11-19
US	53074803	R2RKPTHP1426MN	067003276X	101578948	One Day the Ice Will Reveal All Its Dead	Books	3	2	4	N	N	lyrical, strong central character, slows a bit toward end	German scientist Alfred Wegener, whose Continental Drift theory met with years of derision, is the focus of this lyrically told fictionalized biography.  Known, if at all, for his theory on the continents, Wegener actually delved into more than one discipline and Dudman wisely chooses to show the totality of his life rather than focus on his major claim to semi-fame.  In fact, his battle over the continents is less interesting than his several trips to the Greenland ice sheet. <br />   As much  biography as fiction, there isn't much in terms of narrative, the book simply follows Wegener through childhood, when scientific curiosity begins; young adulthood when his interests begin to focus; adulthood and its accompanying  issues of marriage, fatherhood, World War I, and the introduction of his theory; and finally later adulthood where he battles for his theory against the many naysayers. <br />   The language shifts easily between the poetic and the scientific, with the two sometime merging in some of the best passages of the book.  The most \\"exciting\\" parts of the book, in terms of adventure, are the expeditions to Greenland, though I personally never found them more than interesting, certainly not as compelling or mythic as similar tales of Shackleton or Franklin.  Once we leave Greenland behind and return to the fight over his theory, the book seems to lose some of its urgency.  It's difficult to make scientific lectures, articles, and responses to articles particularly interesting but it's also hard to tell this part of the story without referring to such things.  Things perk up a bit by the last trip to Greenland, which shifts into a more poetic stream of consciousness.  By then though the book had admittedly started to drag a bit and I found myself wishing I could enjoy the writing a bit more without the accompanying sense of impatience.  The close,  however, is as moving as it is b beautiful. <br />  Overall, though the book does lose some of its drive and interest, it remains well worth reading, somewhat for its subject matter but more for its characterization and its poetic depiction of the scientific imagination. Recommended.	2004-11-13
US	53074803	R1M9VUDS1C9CA3	0399152326	488819459	The Runes of the Earth (Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	compelling if a bit repetitive, mostly welcome return	Fans of Donaldson's earlier work in the Land will find much to like here.    Much of what was so good in the first two trilogies is here:  conflicted characters; examinations of power and guilt, sense of loss, familiar etc.  That's both a positive and a negative, however, as there is a distinct sense of  been there done that.  Not overpowering, as the story does expand, deepen, and in general differ in slight, subtle ways from its predecessors.  But the sense remains through much of the book, as once again the Land is under assault, once again characters are ignorant or unwilling, once again a character wrestles with use/control of power, once again a character is taken hostage, once again we deal with Stonedowners and Ranhyn and Bloodguard, once again Kevin Landwaster has lessons to tell us.   Again, the book manages, I think, to evade this as a major pitfall, but one is willing to give a bit more slack to the first book in a projected trilogy/tetralogy; one hopes the rest of the books move down more original paths. <br />   The opening is a bit slow, as Linden Avery's life since the last book is summarized and she is set down the path toward reentry into the Land.  Part of the slowness comes from too much unnecessary introspection on her part, unnecessary because it's redundant (we've heard it already), repetitive (goes on too long in the same vein), or because it is telling us something we should probably be shown.  A bit of it also seems somewhat contrived, but as its main purpose is to get her to the Land we can accept its arbitrariness. <br />  Once in the Land the story picks up and becomes much more compelling as Avery learns of the Land's new ills (loss of the Staff of Law, time storms, a ban on earthpower, and more) and picks up some allies and of course some enemies in her attempts to save the Land and her hostage son.  As usual with Donaldson, half the fun is the shiftiness of what it means to be ally and/or enemy. <br />   For longtime readers of Donaldson, there will be some moments of annoyance as he goes over past Land history that we've all read about or even better seen occur.  Most times he goes a step further, filling in some backstory or forward-story, adding a few details, but it seems much of it could have been streamlined.  I suppose that was for the benefit of those who haven't read the previous books (a quite detailed prologue is available for them) but I'm not sure I understand why anyone would pick this book up not having read those others.  Not only do characters, themes, and plots repeat or expand upon those from earlier, but the whole thrust of the series revolves around the love of the Land and unfortunately, in this book, the Land is pretty pallid.  One just can't understand why it's so important that Avery save it unless one has seen it in all its first trilogy glory.  Sure, Avery keeps telling the reader why it's important and tries to recall the past glory (though she never really saw it fully herself),  but that's a very poor substitute.  For that reason alone I'd never recommend this book as a starter (plus, reading the first six cuts down on the wait time for the sequel to Runes). <br />   Flaws in the book are relatively minor. Sometimes it's a bit contrived, sometimes a bit rushed, sometimes too familiarly predictable. As mentioned the Land itself no longer glows, and  \\"Kevin's Dirt\\" is just an awful letdown in terms of sheer language; I mean, this is the same guy who gave us the Ill Earth War, The Ritual of Desecration, the Unfettered, the Unhomed, and Lord Mhoram's Victory. Is \\"Kevin's Dirt\\" really the best he could do?  But this, like the other flaws, are insignificant in the book's hold on the reader and if one hopes to see some more expansive character and thematic lines, the first two trilogies bode well for such expansion, making Runes both a welcome return and a hopeful beginning.	2004-11-12
US	53074803	R1R9SH7ZTTNX2Q	0802117155	763712560	Wish You Were Here	Books	4	39	40	N	N	1/2 will hate it, some won't finish it, some love it	Wish You Were Here details (and I mean details) the last week a family spends at their cottage in Chautauqua NY before it's sold by the recently widowed matriarch, Emily.  O'Nan follows the various family dynamics, both entrenched (long-standing parent-child issues) and newly formed (recent divorce, budding adolescence), across three generations--Emily and her sister-in-law Arlene, Emily's two children Meg and Ken and her daughter-in-law Lisa, and finally the grandchildren, timid Justin, temptress Sarah, pain-in-the-butt boy Sam, and plain but smart Ella, who has a newly-awakened crush on her cousin Sarah.  There are lots of issues to go around:  Meg's divorce, recent alcohol rehab, money troubles, and deteriorating relationship with her kids; Ken's downward employment spiral, his flailing attempts at photography as an artistic career, his rough-edged marriage; Lisa's inability to connect with her mother-in-law and more recently her husband; Arlene's coming to terms with her age, her singleness, her lack of children, her resentment over the sale of the family cottage; Emily's difficult relationships with her children, sorrow over her dead husband, her sense of her own mortality, her sense of loss with the cottage. Throw in four on-the-cusp of adolescence children (two of them going through a rough divorce, one a possible breakup, and another a same-sex crush) and a missing neighborhood girl, and O'Nan lacks for little to cover. <br />  And he covers it all.  Wish You Were Here is kind of like the old joke--\\"I spent a week in Philly (or fill in your own city) one night\\".  The pace is very slow, the lengthy book divided up by days in the single week covered and the detail is sometimes perhaps more than necessary (how many bathroom scenes does one book need?).  It's easy to predict that many, in fact, will find the book too slow, too filled with mind-numbing detail.  That many will not bother finishing it or hate the fact that they feel compelled to finish it. <br />If one accepts the slow, wandering pace, though, and lets the detail settle around  like a fine mist rather than trying to slog through it like a field of waist-high weeds, the book is highly rewarding.  Not for its plot, of which there is little. But for its sharp humanistic detail, its warm characterization, its vivid tiny moments that most of us would recognize from our own lives.  At first, the characters seem pretty stock:  bitter daughter-in-law, jealous sister, plain but smart teen girl, timid boy, etc.  But as the book delves into each character, either through their own point-of-view, which shifts among them, or through other characters' insights about them, one starts to realize just how complex they are.  They move beyond their surface roles and become fully fleshed characters, interacting through moments of pain, anger, sorrow, resentment, tedium, frustration and on  and on through the panoply of emotions we all do on a daily basis.  One feels for each of them, some more than others (Ella and Arlene stand out for me), but still for each.  Each has his or her moment.  Or more accurately, a string of them.   <br />  The book will certainly not be to everyone's taste.  The pace is slow.  The detail dense and cumulative.  The ending anti-climatic.  If you find yourself fighting your way through the first hundred pages, it's probably not worth the pain as it's more of the same.  But if you find yourself settling in, smiling or wincing to yourself at something a character says, does, or thinks, then make yourself comfortable because you won't be coming up for a while.  Strongly recommended.	2004-11-04
US	53074803	R3O3D9RRT7R1EE	055338211X	525471357	Prisoner of the Iron Tower (The Tears of Artamon, Book 2)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	has some of book one's flaws, but mostly a better read	The Prisoner of the Iron Tower shares some flaws with its predecessor, Lord of Snow and Shadows.  The characterization remains uneven, with some characters more developed than others and some actions seeming abrupt or out of character.  The plot still moves a bit jerkily from scene to scene, lacking full context or a sense of dramatic depth in many places.  Despite these shared flaws, though, Prisoner is a deeper, smoother, and overall better book.   <br />  One of the reasons I think is that in this book we get a fuller sense of the Drakhaoul, its history, its vulnerability, its longing.  There is an added sense of pathos as well as a deeper complexity if the creature is made more \\"human\\", as is done in this sequel. <br />  The focus remains on Gavril, no longer possessed by the Drakhaoul but also not quite free of it.  Its loss has cost him and his country and one of the questions throughout the book is was the price too high and will Gavril reconsider paying it?  The ethics involved are not simple, and they are made more complex by the reader's  more intimate knowledge of the creature. <br />   Other characters and events are somewhat familiar, at times too much so.  Eugene still seeks to create and hold an empire, still seeks power and revenge, still has a personal grudge against Gavril.  As in the first book, he is a tantalizing character in that he should be more fully-formed and more complex than presented; the author still hasn't quite mined his potential.  Other characters, Gavrils' mother Elysia, his love Kiukiu, Eugene's bride of conquest Astasia and her believed-to-be-dead brother are all painted a bit too shallowly to do much more than move the plot along.  Kiukiu especially is a disappointment, too passive and naive by far.  One hopes she strengthens as a character in book three.  As in the first book, there are some lost dramatic opportunities due to weak characterization, abrupt shifts, or scenes that just come and go too quickly.  She should trust herself to linger a bit more.  Also, the physical atmosphere/tone isn't as pronounced as in book one, which is too bad since it added so much to that first book's mood and sense of originality.   <br />  If the end is a bit anti-climatic and a bit predictable, it does set up what promises to be a much more interesting third book.  Based on the improvement from book one to book two, I'll certainly continue on in the series, more from interest than from, as sometimes happens, the perfunctory need to \\"complete\\" a series.  Recommended.	2004-11-02
US	53074803	R2AXWA252N4Q1D	0765301598	638736841	The Battle of Corrin (Legends of Dune, Book 3)	Books	2	87	102	N	N	series continues downward spiral	One steps into this series not expecting the achievement of Dune, an unfairly high standard, but a good read with maybe some flashes of Dune's complexity of character, plot, and philosophy.  The first book of this trilogy, the Butlerian Jihad, failed in the latter two areas but the plot was a good enough read to overcome those flaws.  The second book was a step backward, with the same weak characterization, but this time not balanced by a strongly told story.  The Battle of Corrin,  unfortunately, continues the downward trend.  As in the other books, characterization is almost uniformly shallow, which is tough to do since some of these characters we've seen over the course of several long books now.   Those characters we've seen in prior books don't seem to have developed much and the new characters are mostly two-dimensional.  The plot is weak, mostly an episodic narrative of battles among the three major groups at war (the humans, the cymeks, the robots).  The weakness of the plot is exacerbated by the \\"been there, done that\\" sense of repetition.  It seems the three books could easily have been combined into two, making for a more streamlined, less repetitive narrative.  Not everything needs to be a trilogy (Tolkien be damned).  Another flaw affecting involving both plot and character is that too many actions seem arbitrary or contrived, done more for a plotline than developing out of character.  Some, in fact, seem wholly out of character or simply unbelievable.  Finally, whereas the first book mostly avoided the prequel problem of rote action meant to connect the dots of later books, this one is rolling in it, filled with awkwardly introduced or clumsily handled events/phrases written in so the reader can go \\"ahh, so that's why they call them xxxxxxxx in Dune\\".  Admittedly, it's a tough problem to overcome for any prequel, but seldom have I seen it so poorly handled. <br />  If this were book one I'd definitely recommend against starting the trilogy.  But chances are, if you've reached Battle of Corrin, you're going to read it no matter what just to finish the series and see those connections to later Dune books.  So all I can say is don't expect much, don't feel bad about skimming, and have a good book set aside to dive into when you're done; you're going to want to recapture a good read quickly.	2004-11-02
US	53074803	R1GQM06G4UDNL1	0375406972	667466602	Snow	Books	2	31	37	N	N	better in theory than execution, translation doesn't help	It's always tough judging a translation as you're never quite sure if you're correctly faulting the writer for the translator's faults.  On the other hand, to the reader, it doesn't make much difference unless he/she happens to read Turkish and thus has an alternative.  Stylistically, Snow's major faults are very stilted dialogue, painfully written love scenes, and some repetitive imagery (there is a difference between snow permeating the book in image, tone, and theme, and snow appearing on every page).  The dialogue problems are not only stylistic, but also come from the fact that many of the characters are there to play a role rather than exist as characters in their own right.  Too often they speak not as real people but as mouthpieces for abstractions or as role players in a melodrama.  Sometimes the humor generated by such dialogue/actions seem intentional, sometimes not. <br />    The plot follows Ka, an exiled Turkish poet returned for his mother's funeral.  He decides to go to the city of Kars, ostensibly to report on the local election and the wave of young girl suicides, but actually to catch up again with an old love, now separated from her husband.  A blizzard isolates the town and Ka quickly becomes embroiled in the politics of religion or the religion of politics, interacting with a cast that includes Kurdish separatists, Islamic fundamentalists, leftists, ex-communists, socialists, secularists, militarists, etc.  Adding to the complexity are the love story with Ipek, his reacquaintance with God, and his newfound ability to create poetry once again. <br />   The love story, as mentioned, is particularly weak.  The politics are interesting on the surface, as is Turkey's identity crisis (European or not?), but it is presented in such distanced, abstract fashion, is portrayed via such two-dimensional characters, that one doesn't really feel it.  One recognized there should  be empathy here, sympathy there, anger at this, sorrow at that, but the emotionalresponse just isn't there.  The same is true with Ka's own crises, whether they be emotional, political, religious, or creative.   <br />  There is a great idea here and a wealth of material.  There is room for passion and motivation and empathy, introspection and retrospection.  And I kept waiting for it to happen.  But it never did for me.  Once I was about a third of the way in I had to force myself farther and finished it more because I thought the subject was important than because the story or the characters or the style pulled me along. Sadly but honestly,  I can't say I found it worth the effort.	2004-10-25
US	53074803	R5RBNUAJ3CQXS	0385503490	730501801	The Island at the Center of the World: The Epic Story of Dutch Manhattan and the Forgotten Colony that Shaped America	Books	3	113	122	N	N	informative and entertaining, a bit too imaginative	The Island at the Center of the World is a worthy if flawed read.  Two aspects in particular may annoy a reader--Shorto's use of imagined scenes and his stretching to make a point of the influence of Dutch New Amsterdam. <br /> I have to admit, the imagined scenes grated a bit on me throughout the book. They come far too frequently and lasted too long for my own liking.  Too many passages began with \\"we might imagine\\", or \\"perhaps he . . .\\", or \\"it isn't hard to picture . . .\\"  A few selected scenes like these could have been effective but used as frequently as they were they seemed to mar the book rather than improve it.  This is more stylistic than substantive and while some readers may find it as grating as I did, others may enjoy the vivid intimacy of them. <br />  The other major flaw is Shorto's penchant to reach a bit to make his point that New Amsterdam had far-reaching influence on the America we have today.  Any writer, of course, is going to push his/her thesis; the question is how far they strain the reader's credulity in doing so.  The story of the Dutch colony at New Amsterdam is interesting enough in its own right, and its influence important enough in its own right that Shorto needn't have pushed and strained so much, as if to make sure the reader felt \\"justified\\" in reading the book.  When he starts to talk about Cole Slaw (more than once) as an example of the Dutch influence, you know he's walked a bit over the edge.  In that case, and a few others, he diminishes the colony's importance rather than highlights it. <br />   Those two flaws aside, and one can easily set them aside while reading, Island is an informative, entertaining read.  The story of the New Amsterdam colony is told in some detail (at times, perhaps, as is often the case with single-topic  histories, too much detail), filling in what is probably a large gap in most people's knowledge of former New York (especially those who don't live here).  Shorto focuses of course on Peter Stuyvesant, probably the one name most people can remember, but he broadens out his character greatly.  He focuses even more on Adriaen van der Donck, a young lawyer, previously unknown or little-known, whose presence was a major influence (though again Shorto at times seems to strain this point) on the colony. The dispute between these two and what they represent make up much of the book's description of the colony. <br />  A welcome decision on Shorto's part was to place his discussion of the colony in a larger context, both in terms of what was happening elsewhere in America with the better known English colonies and as well the lesser-known European history.  He does a good job of clearly and concisely explaining issues of succession, of civil war, of multiple wars between empires, etc.  There is just enough that the reader understands the context but not so much that the reader is bogged down or loses sight ever of the books' main focus. <br />  All in all, the facts are interesting, the people more so, and if Shorto pushes a bit too far in trying prove a Dutch influence on present-day America or is a bit too imaginative, those flaws are easily spotted, almost as easily ignored, and mar the book only slightly. Recommended.	2004-10-25
US	53074803	RHYY8EYAV7PHY	0802714021	515689197	The Path: A One-Mile Walk Through the Universe	Books	4	12	12	N	N	pleasant stroll describes the read as well as subject	The Path is exactly what the title says it is, a one-mile walk which lends Raymo the small details of life and the world (monarch butterflies, a minor brook, blooming loosestrife) so that he may expand on them to larger, grander issues:  the birth of the universe and our world, global warming, the impact of technology, etc.  Both the stroll and the read are \\"pleasant\\" --short little jaunts that will seem at least somewhat familiar to many, especially those who would tend toward a book of this sort especially.  The mini-essays on these larger issues dip in and out, offering the reader just enough information to keep them interested and while sometimes the brevity seems perfect, at others it comes across as a bit superficial.  Raymo keeps the book grounded in the literalness of his walk and also in the local  history, which though certainly less important and obviously more proscribed than the universe as a whole, at times is actually more interesting.  Overall, Raymo keeps a nice balance on the three-legged stool of his physical walk along the path, his historical walk through the village's past, and his rational stroll through the science of nitrogen-fixing and star formation.  Overlaying all three, permeating the entire work, is a spirituality that is warm, familiar, conversational, rarely didactic, often passionate, and always sincere.  While the book was interesting and well-written throughout, I thought the writing ticked up in the last quarter or so to a more poetic, lyric style that was a true pleasure to read.  Overall, the book is a good intro to the topics, its local history nicely balances the grander view, and if it reads a bit superficially or disjointed at times, those flaws don't outweigh the positives.  It isn't a great book by any stretch, nor does it aspire to it.  It is just as it's advertised, a pleasant stroll that now and then catches you by surprise in a moment of joyful appreciation.  Recommended.	2004-10-12
US	53074803	R2UHWGLBYAZ0UB	0802117805	306173971	The Last Night of a Damned Soul: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	intriguing, enlightening content marred by stylistic flaws	The Last Night of a Damned Soul is the story of Raouf, a young Arab-American whose grief/confusion over his father's death leads him down the path of martyrdom, guided by his Palestinian friend and Kuwaiti boss.  Over the course of the novel, Raouf removes himself more and more from the trappings of his American life (dog, apartment, girlfriend, mother, etc.) to enter further into the world of Islam and terrorism as he repents, is reborn, and is trained for a terrorist act.  These acts of gradual removal are often preceded by long stretches of quoted sermons/speeches or long passages of introspection. <br />  The book, due to its subject matter and its close focus on an individual, has a certain chill to it, and a sense of suspense as to whether Raouf will actually go through with the terrorist act (no telling here).  And the passages where he is guided or preyed upon depending on one's viewpoint have a macabre sort of fascination.  The sermons also are of interest, giving a window into a set of beliefs, a worldview, that many Western readers probably do not have. <br />  In the end, however, the book's effectiveness is marred by its many flaws.  One is that the characters in the book rarely seem to act like fully-fleshed, real people.  Raouf's girlfriend, for instance, seems to be there simply so she can be discarded.  Her reactions to the changes he displays are either non-existent or unbelievable and his changing reaction to her is all too easily glossed over in a few paragraphs of inner monologue.  Before he is lured/co-opted into the terrorist world, it is all too obvious that his friend and his boss have leaning or connections that way and yet there is no recognition of this on his part, no internal turmoil, again, highly unbelievable.  His mother too seems to be a role character whose major purpose is to sum up an opposing viewpoint in a lengthy letter clumsily introduced toward the end.  And Raouf's own movement from young Arab-American software engineer tofundamentalist Islamic terrorist seems more acted out than acted from within, more staged than developed. <br />  Stylistically, many of the characters do not speak like real people.  The dialogue is often stilted and given to speechifying rather than conversing. While the characters are debating politics and religion, they do so less as people involved in a discussion than as people reading from prepared notes.  The use of so many sermons quoted at such length also was a problem, slowing the book's narrative pace down, taking us away from the more intense and more compelling first-person narrative by Raouf.   <br />   Even the first-person form, however, has its problems as it too often allows the author to pile on the exposition or characterization by telling rather than showing.  There were times the internal monologue told us things we had already figured out by more subtle preceding actions or descriptions or told us things that would have been better shown.  His relationship with his father and his father's subsequent death, for instance, we're told over and over again, had a deep impact on the character, but we are never given any reason to believe this beyond being told it--we're given almost no scenes to convey it through flashback or memory or third-character viewpoint. <br />  The end of the book is the most effective part, where Raouf must confront the actual decision to take part or not in the attack, where his mother writes an impassioned and eloquent \\"sermon\\" in opposition to the many preceding that led him down the path of terrorism.  For all it effectiveness, however, the ending also highlights what the book could have been, and thus highlights its flaws. <br />  As a novel, I can't really recommend the book  based on its weak characterization and flawed style and structure.  On the other hand, if one wishes to set those aside and read not so much for reading pleasure but for insight into a world many of us seldom glimpse let alone imagine, it doesawaken an awareness in the reader, a bud of understanding, if not a full flower.  If it were a longer work, I wouldn't recommend it even then, but since it's such a quick read, it is possible to tolerate the writing flaws for the payoff of subject matter.  Therefore, a very mixed recommendation.	2004-10-05
US	53074803	R2EAPBG3LNQ6F0	0375507973	671227604	The Emperor of Scent: A Story of Perfume, Obsession, and the Last Mystery of the Senses	Books	4	3	5	N	N	fast, engrossing read, one-sidedness small flaw	The Emperor of Scent is excellent as much for its smooth readable style as for its fascinating topic.  The book follows the story of scientist Luca Turin as he tries to unravel the mystery of the sense smell.  Early in his work, Turin decides that the accepted theory, that the shape of the molecules gives them their smell, is completely wrong and that instead it is the vibration of the molecules that gives them their unique scent.  The rest of the book details his tilting against establishment science in an attempt to prove his theory. <br />  The science is for the most part clear and easy to follow; Burr does an excellent job of bringing it to the lay-level and the few times where the reader might feel a bit overwhelmed are far-between and mercifully brief.  Burr and Turin don't simply investigate the smell sense in the abstract; the science/art of perfumery makes up much of the story, especially early on in the book as Turin writes a perfume guide which eventually gets him into the super-secret perfume labs which in turn leads to his theory. Personally I found these parts interesting to a point but could have done with fewer quotes from his reviews or fewer explanations of perfumes, but they don't really slow the book much and mostly disappear at the halfway point.  The same is somewhat true though to a lesser degree with the details of Turin's personal life, most of which seemed extraneous to the story and somewhat perfunctory. <br />   These are minor flaws though.  One last one is that the book seems to end a bit abruptly.  The major flaw is that Burr's presentation is very one-sided.  While this probably helps from a narrative aspect, giving us a \\"character\\" to route for, streamlining the book, giving us something to believe in, from a non-fiction viewpoint a more balanced approach would have been better, giving us more reason to trust Turin.  While the opposing viewpoint is clearly explained, its proponents are almost unanimously portrayed as near-villains and there is very little detail on specific objections, other than those raised to a single paper Turin published.  The whole \\"debate\\" therefore happens somewhat in a vacuum which does a bit of a disservice to the work's non-fiction genre.  <br />  On the other hand, it is such a good read, it's hard to care too much about the lack of objectivity (Burr does try to explain the one-sidedness away but it comes off a bit weak).  As mentioned, it is a fast, smooth read.  And it is laugh-out-loud funny in places, warmly humorous in others.  And it does exactly what a good non-fiction book should aspire to beyond clearly explaining; it leads the reader into further exploration of the same topic.  It's hard to imagine someone finishing this and not wanting to read more on the \\"7 Big Boys\\" who manufacture almost all the smells we meet and greet in our daily lives.  Or how/why those smells are chosen.  Or whether the debate between Shapists/Vibrationists has taken any further turns. <br />  Highly recommended. <br />	2004-10-04
US	53074803	R3BN15JHZ0VFWY	1400060443	85440325	The Flickering Mind: The False Promise of Technology in the Classroom and How Learning Can Be Saved	Books	4	6	8	N	N	good case for skepticism hurt somewhat by one-sidedness	Anyone who has paid any attention to education in the past 20 years, whether personally or professionally, knows the tremendous sales job being done in the name of computer technology.  Oppenheimer lays out in devastating fashion the opposing view and offers a much-needed healthy skepticism to the whole idea of computers in schools.   <br />   The strengths of the book are many.  First, Oppenheimer gives us an historical context for  the topic, starting not with the recent multi-million dollar deals giving laptops to all students in a district but going back much farther.  In fact, he doesn't even begin with computers but shows,  briefly yet effectively, how other technologies were also hailed as education's saviors but fell flat:  radio, television, film, laserdiscs, etc. (he ignores, sadly for people my age, the filmstrip; perhaps he felt too fondly toward its sad little \\"ping\\" telling the teacher it was time to move forward another frame).  Once he shows the reader how past technologies often failed to achieve their promise, he turns to early computers for several chapters before catching up to the big rush to put computers in the schools in the late 80's and the 90's. <br />   He employs a lot of research studies in making his case or more often deflating the tech proponents' case, but the heart of the book is less the research studies than the personal visits Oppenheimer makes to schools that span a range of tech use, from those that are \\"tech-centered\\" to those that make almost no use of computers.  As one might imagine from a book whose thrust is skeptical toward computers, the tech-centered schools don't come off so well. <br />  This approach has both an upside and a downside. On the one hand, it makes clear  and concrete the abstract questions:  why isn't technology doing more to help increase test scores, why isn't it creating  more motivated learners, etc.  When one sees the computers actually in day to day real-school use where students use them to check email in the middle of class, where systems constantly crash, where teachers know less than their students, some of the questions seem easily answered.  But there also lies the pitfall of the approach, since obviously no matter how many schools Oppenheimer visits, he is only seeing a tiny percentage and the visits are so overwhelmingly negative that one begins to wonder if this is truly as bad as it seems or is the game being rigged either consciously or unconsciously. <br />   While the book's agenda is clearly to form a healthy skepticism in the reader's mind, a more balanced approach could have done the same and would have made for a better book.  While Oppenheimer's points about the oversell of computers, about the forced costs involved in upgrading constantly, about untrained or undertrained teachers, about books budgets and teachers being cut while computers are bought are all strong arguments to take a much sharper look at technology's \\"bang for the buck\\", at least some attention to its many good uses would serve the reader well in terms of making this a more informed debate rather than a polemic.  Beyond ignoring the positive uses technology is being put to, he also at times seems to stretch to blame it for things which occur in any classroom regardless of whether computers are there or not.  For instance, he sees the fact that students are checking a non-relevant website or their email during a class session as evidence of the computer's negatives, but look into any classroom of 30 and you're almost bound to see some students doodling, some writing notes to friends, some sleeping at the desk.  Or watch any kids doing group work in a library setting and you'll see some kids doing nothing or reading magazines rather than researching.  Students have never needed computers to screw around and while Oppenheimer tosses off a recognition of this, he still seems to come down a bit hard on technology as the culprit in these cases. <br />  He also doesn't offer enough viewpoints from the other side. For instance, when one teacher calls science simulation programs \\"garbage\\", the opinion doesn't really mean much if we aren't given an opposing view or example of it being used so we can decide for ourselves. <br />   In the end, the books should really be made essential reading for any teacher/administrator and I'd recommend as well for anyone who pays school taxes and votes for school boards/budgets.  It does present a strong case for being skeptical of the millions of dollars being spent on computers and will give informed parents and faculty the background to ask the hard questions that need to be asked of their administrators, their boards, and the salespeople coming around.  For its clarity, its thoroughness, and it ability to raise those questions, I highly recommend it.  I just wish he could have allowed us to trust the skepticism more by not rigging the game quite so much. <br />	2004-10-04
US	53074803	R2ZAH9Y47R7BI2	0618304002	492045478	The Book of Salt: A Novel	Books	3	44	50	N	N	strong 3 but overly-effusive language drowns story a bit	The Book of Salt has as its premise a hook that is bound to grab those who like books about books or authors.  Its narrator is \\"thin binh\\" as he is called by Gertrude Stein and the novel seems to promise an interior look at the lives of Stein and Toklas.  Anyone searching for that book here will be disappointed, however.  While there are some great moments of characterization with regards to the famous duo, they really are a minor sidestory.  The story truly is Binh's--how he got from Vietnam to his position as cook to \\"the Steins\\" as he refers to them and what he will do while they head off to America.  The fact that it is his story isn't necessarily a bad decision, but the reader looking for more on the literary/artistic world one first thinks of upon hearing Gertrude Stein needs to be forewarned. <br />  That put aside, the Book of Salt is a good book, but one burdened somewhat by the author's predilection for soupy, dense language.  If one wants to continue the food metaphor started by the author herself (and I promise to do so just this once), then the novel is overspiced, the author lacking a bit in the light deftness needed to be a superb cook.  Some of the language is truly beautiful, some will sweep you along, but there is no moderation in its use and so the book often, though not always, sinks underneath its linguistic weight. <br />  The plot is interesting and compelling enough. Binh's story is told through interrupted flashbacks which help maintain suspense and answers the reader would like to have our slowly teased out of the narrative--what happened to drive  him from home, what happened to several of his relationships, what will happen when the Steins go to America--does he join them, stay in Paris, or return home in answer to his brother's request? <br />   A few scenes are perhaps a bit contrived, the food metaphor more often so, but these are relatively minor flaws in the whole.  Binh's character and that of his mother stand out as wonderful creations, three-dimensional characters for whom the reader truly feels something.  And if the Steins are more often in the background, as mentioned, there are still some wonderfully telling moments, often small but sharp. <br />   It's hard to fault a book too much for its effusiveness, especially one where the other elements such as plot and character are so solid, thus the strong three as the recommendation. And I would happily pick up a second book by the author in hopes that the same intensity of language is there if not its frequency.  Well-recommended with a few caveats.	2004-09-27
US	53074803	R2AJ5FAFUNOQFZ	1400062500	585019467	The Egyptologist: A Novel	Books	3	52	58	N	N	slows greatly in middle, somewhat predictable but good close	The Egyptologist was heading straight for a two rating until the last 40 pages or so and while I'm not sure I can recommend the book just to get to that ending, I will say the writing (if not the plot outcome which was a bit predictable) redeemed the book, though only to a point.  The story is told through several layering devices:  diaries, journals, and letters by the Egyptologist Ralph Trilipush and letters by the Australian detective Harold Ferrell who is trying to prove Trilipush to be at best a fraud and at worst a murderer.  Neither narrator is reliable, adding some more layers of complexity to the story, as well as some humor. <br />  The basic story  is that Trilipush has convinced his fiancee's father to bankroll (at some risk to himself) his amateur dig in Egypt to find the tomb of Atum-hadu, the king-pornographic poet who may or may not have existed.  Round the corner from his own dig and working on his own relatively minor and sure to be disappointing excavation (according to Trilipush) is Howard Carter (the tomb is King Tut's).  Meanwhile, in a more complicated side-story, Ferrel is digging up (sorry) Trilipush's own past, or at least trying to, both for his own reasons and for various clients who have differing reasons of their own.  Mixed into this are several strange disappearances, missing or falsified records, professional jealousies, etc. <br />   The book starts of quite well, an enjoyable and interesting ride, both for the characters and the egyptology.   But it slows greatly through the middle and there were several times I debated whether it was worth picking up and continuing.  Events and characterizations start to become repetitive without moving the story along, outcomes start to become pretty predictable, and one begins to think simply reading every fifth page or so would get you to the same place with no great loss.  The close of the book is not particularly surprising or rewarding in terms of plot or character, but the writing surges forward to new heights. On one level this is a problem as one of the more beautiful passages is hard to accept coming from the narrator as he's been portrayed.  On the other hand, it's such great writing that you're willing to ignore the messenger. It would have been nice to have gotten to that point much more quickly, but good as that section is with regard to the writing, I'm not sure I can say it's worth reading the whole book.  I would rather the author had kept that writing and saved it for another work. <br />  The settings, for such exotic placement, are surprisingly flat (part of that is the narrative voice).  Plot, as mentioned, is a bit repetitive and predictable.  The true enjoyment comes from the narrative voice, especially that of Trillipush, though it loses its appeal after running in the same tone for so long.  Outside of the two main narrators, other characters are pretty two-dimensional. <br />   Overall, it's an interestingly constructed book with characters that are fun at first, but it just didn't hold interest for much of it.  I wouldn't recommend it personally, but if you do pick it up, before putting it down at least check out the last 20 pages or so.	2004-09-27
US	53074803	R3RXXQDPRBZGZL	0446528714	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns Book 2	Books	3	4	4	N	N	flaws of the first without quite the fun factor--weak 3	Forest of Stars, the second book in Anderson's series, is a chip off the old block with regard to the first.  Unfortunately, one would have hoped for a bit more improvement in the second book. All the flaws of the first are here:  the too-quick shifts from scene to scene, relatively shallow characterization, implausible (even for space opera) plot events, some weak writing/dialogue, and the still maddening habit (though at least less often) of repeating previous exposition as if the reader can't be trusted to remember a few chapters back.  The first book overcame these flaws with its robust ingenuity and simple sense of fun.  This book doesn't quite match the verve of the first, however, and so the flaws are magnified, affecting the reading experience more.  Too much of what happens here we've seen already in the first, such as King Peter chafing under Basil's restrictions, the inventiveness of the Roamers, etc., which takes away a bit of the spark as well.   <br /> There are some good scenes in here, and a few of the characters manage to stand out as more sharply drawn and more compelling than others.  Applying the same level of characterization to others would have greatly helped, as would streamlining the book a bit to cut down on repetitive action or dialogue. As it was, I kept reading to see what would happen but I can't call it very compelling.  Having read the third book I can say that it too shares the same flaws without the balancing positives.  One hopes as a series continues that we're treated to more than an unspinning of the plot--deeper characterization, improved writing style, a sense of a more full story.  Unfortunately, Anderson seems stuck a bit in the same gear as book one.  The potential is there, but is so far unmet.  He hasn't dropped off much, but I'll need more than holding course in book four to continue.  Recommended for those who read and liked the first with the warning not to expect much more, but at this point I wouldn't recommend the series to new readers.	2004-09-18
US	53074803	R1FDC0I5W4Z8J3	0446528722	968422356	Horizon Storms: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #3	Books	3	29	35	N	N	barely keeping me in, needs to improve	The easiest way to write this review would be to send someone to my review of book one and say \\"ditto\\", except not as fun.  Which was basically my review of book two. And therein lies the series' problem--if you've read one, you've read them all. That isn't to say the plot doesn't move on, doesn't become more complicated.  It does. But that's all that happens. And much of the plot complication is based upon themes and plot we've seen before.  King Peter and Chairman Basil edge nearer and nearer to outright confrontation, but we saw the basis of this two books and hundreds and hundreds of pages ago.  The roamers are forced through their shades-of-MacGyver ingenuity to survive the unsurvivable, escape the inescapable, figure out the un-figure-outable.  And as we saw in book one and two, they do.  Water elementals are added to the mix, but we've seen their three brethren already so this comes as no surprise.  The Klix (sp) robots are evil and deceptive, but we've seen this before. It would be different if one had a sense the plot was deepening, but it feels more like it's simply expanding. The same is true of the characters.  Though as before, one or two stand out as better and more fully drawn, more compelling, in a cast of dozens that's somewhat damning with faint praise. And stylistically, the books don't seem to  be getting any better.  At one point a character trying to show determination both grits her teeth and lifts her chin; I'll give you a few cliches in a large book but not two in the same sentence.  The first book drowned out (for the most part) these flaws with it sheer inventiveness and sense of fun, but books two and three lack that spark and so are no where near as enjoyable. One reads to see what happens (though I'm very close to not caring at this point) and that's it, not for the pleasure of reading.  Had Anderson shrunk the first three books into two shorter ones, the flaws would be less obvious and the story may have carried me along past them.  Atthis point I'm going to drag myself into book four only  because I'm an optimist and I read fast.  But I would not recommend this series at this point to new readers unless it picks up drastically in book four.  There's too much good out there to invest time in a series that doesn't do much past book one.	2004-09-18
US	53074803	R3STNJX74KFRLT	0060009616	865891903	Bittle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	dog drinks from toilet--now that's funny (to my 3 yr old)	Sometimes you never know just what will capture your child's attention.  Bittle is one of  those books I never would have expected to do so. It's certainly a cute story with a wry touch, but it simply didn't stand out in my mind for story or illustrations.  So I guess when my wife says I've never grown up she must be wrong, because boy does my three-year-old love this book. <br />  The story follows Julia the dog and Nigel the cat as their comfortable lives are interrupted by the arrival of Bittle, the new baby.  Bittle's presence is foreshadowed by:  a bag of tiny clothes (not mine says Julia), a new paintjob (the color of mold says Nigel), and a new crib (a cage says Julia).  If you haven't figured it out, Nigel is the smart one. <br />  At first the animals are a bit put out:  Julia hides her bones (though Nigel tells her Bittle has no teeth), they're woken up by her screaming at night.  But gradually, or as gradually as a picture book allows, they realized they share some common interests.  Both Bittle and Nigel like chasing butterflies and both Julia and Bittle enjoy the bathroom--Bittle for the toilet paper roll as any parent could have guessed and Julia for the toilet bowl itself, an image which never fails to crack up my three-year-old.  Or 30-month-old as he was when he first was exposed to Bittle.  Nigel and Julia fetch toys when Bittle tosses them from the crib and lick Bittle's droppings from the table.  In the end, mom and dad will be surprised to learn they weren't quite the influence on Bittle as they might have thought. <br />  There is, as mentioned, a nice wry sense of humor and tone, especially from Nigel--he speaks as one imagines a cat would.  The pictures are simple and colorful.  There is a good pace to the story, the differing tones of Nigel and Julia allow for some fun reading aloud, and the story's point comes across clearly and gently.  It's a good book on its own, a great book based on my son's reaction, but an especially good one to pickI'd think if you're expecting a second child and have some concerns about the first's reaction.  Good recommendation from dad, super recommendation from son.	2004-09-18
US	53074803	REZVCBI3L2685	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	1996	2102	N	Y	A pleasure throughout but patience required	I'm giving Jonathan Strange a 5 for the simply reason that I thoroughly enjoyed it all the way through, but I'd warn all readers to be more wary than usual of reviews (including this one).  More than many books, this one I think will be a matter of true personal taste and experience will be your only truly accurate guide.<br /><br /> To begin with, Strange is often referred to as a \\"fantasy\\" novel, an \\"adult\\" Harry Potter (ignoring Potter's self-obvious claim to millions of \\"adult\\" readers).  If you're expecting fantasy in the form of Harry Potter magic (though done by bigger people employing bigger words) or Lord of the Rings-like quests and elves, be advised neither is here.  Fantastical might be a better genre-word here than \\"fantasy\\".  There is certainly magic here, both human and faerie (very different forms), but when one of the major storylines is how magic has gradually disappeared from England and when one of the major characters has as his purpose the destruction (not Black Tower hordes of evil monsters destruction but economic, social, or legal destruction) of those who would become magician, as you might imagine there isn't a lot of magic going on, at least not for the first few hundred pages.  Those looking for a lot of wand-waving or fireball-flinging would best look elsewhere.<br /><br />  One of the signs of the book's maturity is that one can't really generalize too much about the magic in it.  Magic is almost invisible in the beginning and near-constant toward the end.  It is scholarly, bookish and tedious and also vigorous, physical and exciting.  It is human and Faerie and a melding of the two. It is all-powerful (Spain complains about the rearrangement of several of their country's geographic landmarks) and ineffective (you can see visions in water but they seldom are helpful).  It is the subject of dry articles in academic journals and the cause of near-rumbles in local taverns.  It is wonderfully complex and realistic.  It is at times dazzlingly original (ships and sailors formed of rain, statues anguished over crimes committed beneath them), and handled often as if it is the most pedestrian, mundane aspect of daily life, except for the whole raise-the-dead, towering-shaft-of-neverending-night sort of thing.<br /><br />  As for other fantasy genre elements, there is no band of diverse creatures setting out on a quest to defeat some dark lord; no tall, shining elvish archers; no nomadic horse-loving tribes.  If you want to find a Tolkien analogue, it isn't Lord of the Rings but Smith of Wooten Major, an often forgotten story about the collision of the human and faerie realms.<br /><br />  Strange is also referred to as a historical novel.  It is set in early 19th century England, Wellington and other historical figures make their appearance, characters travel in carriages rather than cars.  But the book's historical setting, like its magical element, is more pervasive than emphatic. It exists alongside the characters and story and serves them rather than being front and center as is true of so many historical novels.  One is always aware of the historical setting, but I don't think anyone would come away from Strange with a truly enlarged understanding of the time period, as say one might from Lindsay Davis' mystery series set in ancient Rome, where specific foods and social rituals and forms of clothing etc. are constantly set before the reader. The setting is utterly believable, I'm sure meticulously researched, detailed and accurate, but it still doesn't feel like a \\"historical novel\\".  Which from my view is a strength not a weakness.<br /><br />  My advice therefore is not to place your should I read or not bet on the book's labels.  What should you know?<br /><br />  It's long. Very long.  Longer than it seems according to the page count, since there are pages and pages of small-type footnotes throughout.  Is it too long?  I'm sure many people will think so.  It takes its time in setting up story andcharacter, leisurely is probably too fast-paced a description.  It is far from compelling in the first few hundred pages in the sense of \\"must turn page to find out what happens\\".  Personally, I found it compelling through character and style rather than plot. If you prefer plot, then prepare to be somewhat bored until the latter third where it moves along more speedily and in more traditional compelling manner.<br /><br />  It's discursive. Very discursive. It will wander away quite often and sometimes at great length from the major plot lines, interrupting with academic asides or summaries/analyses of old folktales, or snippets of poetry.  Again, some will probably find this maddening, some will simply skip the footnotes entirely. I liked the discursive nature of the book and found the footnotes often as enjoyable as the main text, always tolerable, and only rarely annoying.<br /><br /> It is often beautifully written.  it's one of those books where you'll pause over a line to reread it or let its effect linger a little while, whether due to the simple beauty of description, the efficiency of its brevity, or its dry wit.  It is a true pleasure to read.  Not to find out what happened.  Simply to read.<br /><br />  It's often funny.  It is at times frighteningly dark.  It has at times a domestic feel and at other times a grand mythic feel, especially in connection to the Raven King, the mysterious magician-king of old North England who also ruled over a land of Faerie and allegedly another land bordering Hell who disappeared centuries ago with the promise of return.  Whether that return is to be  wished for or not  is the core dispute between the two magicians of the title.<br /><br />  It is character driven.  There are many wonderful scenes of \\"action\\", more so toward the latter half, but they tend to be understated while the book focuses more on character.  Both Strange and Norrell are fully-fleshed out characters, totally believable in all their assets and flaws.  We are given the time to know them and if Strange seems more appealing due to his more active role in the book, Norrell is no less accessible or recognizable for his minor jealousies and passiveness, though we may wish to deny the same traits in ourselves.  The story of their meeting, their partnership, their sundering and what comes next is one of the major storylines and one of the more engaging, even if it happens mostly on the interior and despite the fact that the characters themselves are not particularly compelling by nature.<br /><br />There is a lot more one could say about this book.  It's a lengthy work and a dense work.  One could discuss the conflict between wild faerie and civilized England--presented in shades of grey rather than black and white.  The sharp social commentary. The distant narrative tone.  But this review is edging close to the length of one of her footnotes, so I'll bring it to a close.<br /><br />  Try Jonathan Strange.  If it doesn't draw you along, keep trying.  If it still doesn't, try skimming footnotes, skimming pages, dipping in now and then to keep up on plot and catch one of those well-crafted lines, then come in for a landing and try again word  by word.  It isn't a rollercoaster ride on a summer Saturday .  But it is a memorably gorgeous walk on a crisp autumn day, filled with slow sensual delight.  Highly recommended.	2004-09-17
US	53074803	RJZOHHYLM6JVN	1594200106	734819982	The Shadow of the Wind	Books	5	14	16	N	N	one of better books this year, a fun medley of genres, 4 1/2	Shadow of the Wind is one of the most enjoyable reads I've had in some time.  Part of the reason for that, I think, is that Zafon's own love for reading comes out so clearly in the book. And reading of all sorts; he is no literary snob. Shadow is a wonderfully spiced stew of genres.  Magical realism? The main character visits the Cemetery of Forgotten Books.  Historical fiction?  It's set in mid-century Spain against the backdrop of the civil war.  Mystery?  The main plot is an attempt to track down the mysterious author of several novels as well as the mysterious figure who has seemingly made it his life work to collect and burn them all.  Gothic?  We have haunted houses, basement crypts, strange noises, etc.  Bibliophilia?  All is set in motion by the reading of a novel, much centers on finding the author, many characters are themselves booksellers or collectors.  Victorian?  Got it.  Revenge, noire, romance, coming-of-age?  Got it, got it, got it, got it.  Metafiction? Got it. Melodrama?  Oh my, do we have melodrama.  Admittedly, some may find all of the above (and that is by no means an exhaustive list of the genres Zafon employs) simply a dull collection of cliches.  Personally, to me that's like saying a rainbow is just a collection of the colors on the cans in my pantry.  Zafon employs, plays with, at times transcends the genre cliches to form his own original, compelling, enjoyable work.<br /><br />  As mentioned, the basic storyline is the attempt over the span of years by the main character Daniel to find out what happened to the author of a novel entitled Shadow of the Wind.  The author has disappeared and is rumored dead. His poor-selling novels have disappeared over the years, bought and burned by a mysterious figure who may or may not be the same person as another mysterious figure (did I mention we have melodrama) who uses the name of one of the author's fictional characters.<br /><br />  Structurally, the story unfolds as many stories within stories, as a large number of characters get to relate their own related tales through speech, letter, manuscript, third-hand conversations, and so on.  There are therefore many flashbacks but they are integrated smoothly into the story, if not particularly subtly, and present no problem of confusion.  They also serve to add to the compelling nature of the story by interrupting the straightforward narrative and by offering teasing hints of upcoming resolutions.  Without going into spoiler detail, there is also a nice structural parallel between modern day events/characters and past events/characters.<br /><br />  Stylistically, the language is mostly a sheer joy (nod to the translator here), though it veers a bit over the top at times.  Zafon displays a strong stylistic range, creating frightening physical settings in the gothic mode with the same ease as he does slapstick action or dialogue.  There are some lines that you just want to linger over for their beauty of description or their concise wit.<br /><br />  The plot is compelling throughout and complex enough to keep the reader guessing.  The characters are fun, though since Zafon is playing with character type here, some are a bit two-dimensional.  This is no complaint,  however, since the way they play out their genre-type roles is much of the fun of the novel.  If Daniel himself isn't the most compelling of characters, he is sympathetically and fully drawn and  his lack of \\"verve\\" is more than made up for by his sidekick Fermin, himself a figure with a \\"mysterious past\\" and one who I thought could have come straight out of Dumas.<br /><br />  Is Shadow a \\"great\\" book?  I can't quite go there.  There were times when, despite all the joy, I felt it was missing a little something, felt it needed a bit more depth. And I still haven't decided if the last story-within-a-story was justified; part of me leans toward thinking it marred the ending by wrapping it up a bit too neatly and prosaically.  so a great book? Perhapsnot. A great read?  Absolutely.  The difference between the two?  A matter of personal opinion I'm guessing so I'll leave that to the individual reader, of which there should be many.  A strong, strong recommendation.solutely.  The difference between the two?  A matter of personal opinion I'm guessing so I'll leave that to the individual reader, of which there should be many.  A strong, strong recommendation.	2004-09-13
US	53074803	R1Z5UE3RJN9EKF	0786818603	990781467	The Golem's Eye (The Bartimaeus Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	good sequel, lacks a bit of the spark, little too long	The Golem's Eye is a solidly enjoyable if slightly disappointing follow-up to The Amulet of Samarkand, which admittedly set itself a very high standard.  The book returns to the same setting and characters first introduced in Samarkand, while expanding upon the first novel with a few new characters, one new setting (Prague) and a somewhat more complicated plot. <br />   As in the first book, the major story involves a plot against the government which Nathaniel the young ambitious wizard must confront with his much more wise and experienced (and acidic) djinn, Bartimeus.  Suspects are the Prague Council, a traitor within the British govt., someone bent on personal revenge, and the Resistance, including young Kitty from book one.   <br />  All the strengths of the first book remain, though diluted somewhat in execution.  Stroud's world, a modern-day England where demon-summoning, backstabbing wizards rule in luxury over a mostly-complacent lower class and a small minority of rebels, is nicely detailed in touches both large and small.  Beside the major plot conflicts, there is a constant undercurrent of tension caused by the larger societal conflicts (magic versus unmagic, upper-class versus lower class, natives versus immigrants), infighting among several groups (the ruling magicians, the smaller Resistance movement), and tangential references to outside conflicts (impending war with America, continuing strain within the empire with regard to conquered areas, especially Prague).  Not to mention the inherent hostility between the wizard-rulers and their summoned/captive demons, wonderfully captured in one of my favorite scenes. <br />   The structure, which switches point-of-view among Nathaniel, Kitty, and Bartimeus remains an effective device though for some reason doesn't seem quite so smoothly done as in Samarkand. <br />   Character development is as strong, however, as all three of the major characters--Nathaniel, Kitty, Bartimeus--face several major turning points and personal crises. These are fully fleshed out characters here exhibiting a range of emotions and reactions, a range of traits both positive and negative, all of them believable and realistic.  As in book one, Stroud is not afraid to have one of his major characters, Nathaniel, be highly unlikable in places.  Kitty is certainly more likable, while Bartimeus remains the most enjoyable. <br />  That last is part of the problem here for he is also the one least present in the book. When he is on the page, he carries the book along swiftly with a bitingly funny narrative voice.  When he isn't there, his absence is sometimes strongly felt.  Certainly for those who loved Samarkand in large part for the voice of Bartimeus, his lessened presence here is cause for some small disappointment. <br />  The book is also too long; it easily could have lost a hundred or so pages which would have not only sped things along a bit but also would have given Bartimeus proportionately more space. <br />  The plots are interesting and while they are \\"resolved\\" so that the book can stand on its own, there are enough unanswered questions that one wants to move right on to the next book in the series.  And while each of the major characters develops throughout the book, he/she/it is left still unformed, still in the process of becoming.  Wanting to learn how they turn out is an even more compelling lure than the ongoing plot. <br />  Disappointing with respect to its predecessor, but Samarkand was so good it should come as no surprise if Stroud didn't quite match it.  As its own book, Golem is still highly enjoyable, though readers will probably wish the parts with Bartimeus were more frequent and the other sections not as long.  Still a strong recommendation with a lot of anticipation for the next one.	2004-09-10
US	53074803	RZUKW4M50IPGY	037582538X	682019031	Wild About Books	Books	5	41	44	N	N	great book for young and old	Wild About Books is one of those kids' books that runs on all cylinders.  The premise, the librarian drives the bookmobile into the zoo where the animals get hooked on reading, is original and full of opportunity.  The language is simply fantastic--playful, sophisticated, rhythmic, full of great sounds and rhymes, and filled with puns aimed at older readers and adults. The artwork matches the language--bright and cheery, varied in color and size and layout, filled with as many visual jokes as linguistic ones.  The book doesn't condescend to its intended audience of young children or to its secondary one--the adult reading it aloud.  It is a bit long for the very young (two and under) but certainly three and up will find it a wonderful read and those who are between two and three will enjoy it as much if in truncated readings.  Those 30 and up will enjoy it even more.  One of the best picture books of the past few years and highly recommended.	2004-09-09
US	53074803	R32XEOSS461G7W	1841955493	513716298	Voyageurs: A Novel	Books	3	19	20	N	N	wonderful detail but doesn't always hold attention	Voyageurs is set during the time of the War of 1812 on the then hotly contested border between Canada and America.   Mark Greenhow is a young English Quaker whose sister Rachel left to minister in Canada and ended up marrying outside the faith and thus being disowned by her religion, if not her family.  When Mark's family receives a letter from her husband (a fur trapper agent named Alan Mackenzie) that Rachel was lost in the wilderness after wandering off desolate at the loss of their first child, he decides to go to Canada and search for her.  In simple terms, the book is the story of his quest to do so:  his journey to Canada, his joining Mackenzie and Loic (half Indian half European) to travel far into the wild border area, and his return, all of this set against the backdrop of gathering war among Canada, America, and the Native Americans who may fight on either side. <br />  The book, of course, is not so simple.  Structurally, it is a story within a story within a story as the major narrative is supposed to be Mark's journal \\"discovered\\" by the modern day author who has had it published.  The main story it is told as a long flashback as an older, wiser Mark reflects in his journal on his long-ago journey.  While this technique allows for more sophisticated language and references, and also for occasional bits of actual wisdom, in general it doesn't add much to the work as a whole.  The use of footnotes, some quite lengthy, slows the book down quite a bit in places and though several of the notes are small gems of tone and characterization, in general the payoff is not worth the interruption or the extra complication.  <br />   Elphinstone does a better job of complicating matters via setting and especially through the choice of religion.  It is made clear early on that Mark is conflicted at times with his religions pacifism, and even before he leaves for Canada we learn of several times where he mentally or actually failed to hold up to the standard of peaceset by his community.  His journey, set as it is in a time of war, will further confuse him, forcing him to choose again and again whether to hold steady to the Quaker path.  In the end, he must decide just who he is.  This conflict, as mentioned, is set up early in the book, and is a constant source of tension throughout. It is also nicely paralleled by other elements in the book: the physical setting, a border in the midst of deciding what it is or who it belongs to; two countries deciding what their relationship will be; a multitude of cultures deciding how they will interact, a number of characters of mixed race; a number of characters who must decide to what and to whom their loyalties lie, etc.  This sense of identity conflict is perhaps the best part of the book. <br />  If it isn't the best part, the detailed setting surely is.  Elphinstone does a masterful job of detailing life during this time and in this place and Mark's trips from settlement to settlement and camp to camp are languorous descriptions of the natural surroundings and the cultural ways of life of trappers, settlers, and Native Americans.  I have to admit that at times I found the detail a bit too overdone, not in any given section but overall. Whereas each section was wonderfully written and each area wonderfully evoked, the book did slow down by the middle to latter part and I found myself having to resist the temptation to skim.  The book probably would have been better served losing 50-100 pages. <br />  The very end is a bit anti-climatic but the resolution regarding Rachel was, without giving anything away, nicely and originally handled, avoiding cliche, sentimentalism, or predictability. <br />  A leaner book, one that cut down a bit on some of the description and cut out or cut severely the older Mark sections (not to mention the journal's \\"discoverer\\") and the book would have rated a strong four. With the somewhat extraneous structure and the sometimes slow pacing, it drops down, though still recommended for its detail, its thematic structure, and the voice of its main character.	2004-09-09
US	53074803	R2KKZ3ZGB1SLS7	0765310422	316359352	Scepters (Corean Chronicles, Book 3)	Books	2	3	7	N	N	not bad on its own but  been down this road too often	Scepters, the third and perhaps concluding book of the Corean Chronicles, isn't a bad book in its own right.  If it could be read on its own (one really needs to have read the two previous books to follow this one), it would have been a decent if not great or even really good read.  But coming as it does after the first two, my largest reaction was haven't we seen all this before? <br />  By now the pattern of plot and character has become pretty rote. Alucius, the main character of all three, is reluctantly forced to once again take up arms to protect his ability to remain a herder and have a normal life.  Once again, he protests that he has no desire to leave his home, that he only does \\"what needs to be done\\", that he wishes no further honors, awards, etc.  Once again, he is placed in \\"impossible\\" situations (made impossible due to overwhelming forces arrayed against him, overwhelming enemy technology, weak and/or corrupt officers on his own side, and poorly or barely trained soldiers he must fight with).  Once again he overhears snippets of conversation about how impressed his soldiers are with him and how insecure and jealous his superior officers are. Once again, he does the impossible while getting badly wounded.  After healing, it all begins again.  Literally.  These general repetitions of plot would be bad enough, but for some reason in Scepters Modesitt simply repeats some specifics as well.  The crystal throwing machines are back wreaking havoc and needing to be destroyed.  The torques are back and their controlling crystal which needs to be destroyed.  The ifrit are back with their tables that need to be destroyed. And the soarers are back to kidnap a herder and teach him how to use his talent. Actually, Modesitt slips in a creative change here; they teach her to use her talent. <br />  Of course there is some new plot here and a few new characters, but this may be the worst example of plot repetition in a series I've ever seen.  I suppose Eddings' laterworks give it a run for its money. <br />  The main character is far too perfect and if his own perfection doesn't get to you, the constant reminder by others in the book that he is perfect just might.  One never really feels a sense of crisis as it's been made clear he will sail through all obstacles, even if he has to spend a few weeks in bed afterward. His wife is more footnote than anything else in this book until the last section and doesn't really stand out in the reader's mind as more than a plot device.  And here again, their relationship is far too perfect.  His sidekick, Feran, is far more realistic and therefore far more interesting. <br />   The military aspect of the novel is interesting to a point; it's nice to read battle scenes that have some sense of reality to them.  But do we really need every single reporting in or attendance check?  It reminds me of old movies where directors would show people getting in their car and actually driving for minutes before someone finally realized they could just say they were going someplace and then shoot them arriving at their destination. <br />   As I said, if this were a standalone book, with a little more exposition it would have been a decent read.  But it isn't a standalone and Modesitt has crossed the line from welcome familiarity of character and plot to simple dull repetition.  He (and his readers) would have been far better served with a single book or perhaps a single sequel.	2004-09-06
US	53074803	R24M3HNXFOHNSC	0345464028	579397011	Iron Council	Books	4	6	7	N	N	a step down from earlier books but still quite strong	Iron Council is Mieville's third book set in his created world.  While not really a trilogy as is normally thought of, since each book can stand independent of the others, it's probably best to have at least read Perdido Street Station since that book gives the most full description of the world's background--its various races, politics, technologies, magics, economics, etc.  In this book, the city of Perdido Street Station is at war both with a vague outside enemy known as the Tesh and with itself, as it is being torn apart by economic, political, and racial tensions. The impending civil war was foreshadowed years ago when the oppressed workers of the transcontinental railroad mutinied against their corporate overseers and fled to start their own free state.  That semi-mythical state has served as a symbol of hope to those back in the city and now a small group aims to find it before the city destroys it in order to send a crushing message to its current revolutionaries.   <br /> In comparison to the first two Iron Council slips a little bit, but since Perdido Street Station and The Scar set such a high standard, that really isn't too harsh a criticism. While so much of recent fantasy or science fiction simply replays the same shopworn chords, or at best minor variations of them, Mieville offers true originality.  The depth and range of inventiveness which made both Perdido Street and The Scar such pleasures to read is equally evident here in Iron Council.  Some of that inventiveness drives major parts of the story, such as the art of golem-making for instance, displayed in a joyful buffet of detailed options. Much of the time it appears in the form of a throwaway line, each new one adding another layer of richness to the world he's created.  Despite the novel's length, there are times you just wish he'd digress for an embedded short story to explain one of those throwaway lines. <br />  There is a richness of theme as well as setting here.  Mieville plays with allsorts of genre cliches, especially the Western and the Quest stories, and the novel takes seriously its politics and economics, as well as its ethics.  There are big ideas here, big questions, and none are addressed simplistically or easily.  The characters and situations are realistic, fraught with shadowy motivations and unintended consequences. <br />  Structurally, the book follows three major characters and shifts point-of-view among them, doing so smoothly and skillfully.  The book is interrupted by a long flashback and while this could have been handled as clumsy exposition, in this case it works completely, opening up another interesting storyline without slowing the book's' movement as a whole. <br />  Where the book falls short of its predecessors is in its characters.  They don't quite have the fullness or the intensity of characters in the first two books.  The three main characters are each interesting in their own right, but never seemed fully drawn to me,  while the side characters were mere pale echoes, never eliciting much concern for what happened to them.  The story itself, perhaps by its more political nature, is also less compelling than the plots of the first two, though it never really failed to hold interest.  There were a few places it might have dragged a bit,  but these were few and never lasted very long, and the ending more than made up for those few occasions. <br />   In the end, Iron Council was perhaps slightly disappointing, but only relative to Perdido Street Station and The Scar, two standout works of recent fiction.  Standing alone, outside the context of the earlier works, Council still easily ranks as one of the best and most intelligent books I've read in the past year or so.   If you've read earlier Mieville, you'll want to read Iron Council just to re-enter his richly unique world. If you haven't read any Mieville yet, I strongly recommend Iron Council, but even more strongly recommend you come to it after having read the first two.	2004-09-05
US	53074803	R2DE0OH2QSB80S	0345440676	549569088	The Charnel Prince (The Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 2)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	flawed but moves story along, good new character introduced	The Charnel Prince succeeds in what should be the immediate and least of goals for second books in series--it moves the plot along. The book is well-paced, moving quickly through various storylines and transitioning nicely from one point-of-view to another.  The shifts occur smoothly and repeatedly act to increase suspense (some may tire of the tactic; it never really bothered me).  The different stories are mostly well-balanced, each carrying its own weight in terms of plot and character. Though I'd say one is noticeably weaker than the others, it doesn't act as much of a drag on the book as a whole. <br />  There is no \\"recap\\" of the Briar King, but Keyes does a nice job of refreshing the reader's memory without being too obvious and without slowing the book down with a lot of early exposition.  The main characters all return, some showing signs of growth, others performing their roles somewhat perfunctorily.  Queen Muriel is perhaps the best example of a character who exhibits subtle and continuing signs of natural growth. Some of the characters instead have their changes \\"announced\\" to us, either by internal monologue, narration, or the somewhat clumsy remarks of other characters.  Keyes also introduces a brand new major character, a composer, who is one of the more interesting characters of the series and whose personal storyline is certainly one of the more unique ones I've seen in fantasy. <br />  The boil of internal and external politics and the conflict between pagan and institutional religion, along with the typical individual grasp for power, makes for a stimulating ride.  The more personal relationship issues aren't handled nearly as well, but since they remain mostly understory, they don't cause too much damage. <br />  Overall it's a well-constructed and mostly well-written book, with several very strong scenes (especially those involving the composer), but it lacks somewhat a true spark.  Some of the characters play out their roles a bit too robotically, some of the character shifts are too quick, the storyline involving Aspar and friends is weak in comparison to the others, and some of the plot points a bit too well-worn: secret passages in the castle, brilliant plotters allowing themselves to be overheard plotting (twice), mysterious aid coming out of nowhere at just the right time. None of these are major flaws, none of them bring the book to a screeching halt or make it a bad book. But they do make it a flawed book, one that despite its quick readability doesn't tug the reader along or make him/her ache for more.  Having seen these characters through two novels now, and with all the pieces seemingly in their place, the time is ripe for the third book to transcend the first two in inventiveness and characterization.  The composer character in this one is a good sign.	2004-09-04
US	53074803	R1KK6KAY0WRH7Q	1585675598	380195986	The Darkness That Comes Before (The Prince of Nothing, Book 1)	Books	3	105	120	N	N	unassuming start, solid foundation for later books	The Darkness that Comes Before is the beginning of yet another epic fantasy. It stands out a bit with its more gritty feel, its lack of frequent overt magic, the relative lack of supernatural creatures, and its more full use of religion and philosophy.  Those with some awareness of history will also see clear parallels (though not necessarily in one on one fashion) to the Crusades, another nice twist.  Like many of the more ambitious works in the genre, there are a plethora of characters and places with the book's narrative shifting back and forth between them and there is a grand sense of time, with events from thousands of years ago playing out in the present. <br />  Darkness shares with some of those other works the same highlights and lowlights.  The plot is complex enough to remain stimulating throughout and the shift in point-of-view offer up a more interesting story while allowing more in-depth characterization.  Bakker handles the narrative shifts smoothly and has a good sense of when it's time to leave one character for another.  The characters are also nicely balanced in terms of interest so that there is no drop-off for the reader as we move along.  The same is true, mostly, for the various storylines, though some are more compelling and better paced than others. <br />  The negatives, while not outweighing the positives, are a noticeable drag however.  Because the book must recount history over the course of several thousand years and set up the reader for the coming conflict, there is a lot of exposition that must be handed out. It is rarely done in clumsy or uninteresting fashion (a few places here and there), but so much information does slow the book now and then.  The number of characters also sometimes serves to dilute their individual impact.  If they are well-balanced in terms of none are truly uninteresting, they are also well-balanced in that none, so far, really stand out.    The sorcerer Achamiam is the best drawn and so far carries the bestpotential, but even he is not really forcefully compelling.  The good thing though is that Bakker has truly laid some good character groundwork so the potential is obviously there. <br />  Darkness therefore is a solid if not particularly inspiring introduction to the series. It didn't sweep me along; it didn't make me frantic to try and get a jump on the second book, as has happened with other series where I'll pay extra shipping or even go international to get hold of the next work.  But it did hold my interest throughout and left me with enough interest to keep reading.  And it is different enough from so much of the formulaic fantasy that is out there that the difference alone makes for a more pleasurable read.  My guess is now that the foundation has been so neatly laid out in all sorts of ways--plot, character, history, politics, religions, etc.--the next book will move along more speedily and will offer up more intense and compelling scenes.  Not a rave review,  not a \\"you've just gotta read this\\" review, but a solid \\"this is good intelligent fantasy that breaks out a bit from all the other stuff and has potential to become even better\\" recommendation.	2004-09-02
US	53074803	R37RWHXMMGXI5Z	0810948230	272955227	The Golden Hour	Books	3	8	15	N	N	not executed as well as potential calls out for	The Golden Hour has a strong premise and a backstory that should lend a hefty sense of dramatic weight, but it unfortunately falls a bit short of its potential, even given the allowances for young adult fiction.  I have to admit that it came as no surprise that the author writes for television.  Not that TV writers are necessarily bad,  but the book had that not-quite-all-there sense of TV writing.  It could have slowed down a bit in several places for greater effect but felt as if it were always rushing on to the next thing. <br /> Rowan and Nina Popplewell, still trying to recover from their mother's sudden death, are sent by their father (also clearly not recovered) to stay with their mother's two eccentric aunts in an out-of-the-way corner of Maine. Nina, a child musical prodigy who has given up both piano and speaking since her mother's death, and Rowan, who must come to grips with his own buried sense of anger and abandonment, are quickly met with a set of small mysteries surrounding the aunts and the small town. <br />   With their new friends, the twins Xanthe and Xavier, they learn the secret (though not really all that secret) of the town's abandoned Owatannauk resort. The old resort is actually a time-machine of sorts, giving its \\"guests\\" the opportunity to time-travel during the \\"golden hour,\\" (\\"the short period of time between day and night.\\") or the \\"silver hour\\" (the analogous morning time).  There are a host of rules involved, including the fact that one must have \\"need\\" to use the \\"alleviators\\", though some of the rules are more consistently applied than others it seems.  Before the children can think through the opportunities and possible consequences, they are forced into trying to track Nina through the chaos of the French Revolution. <br />  Most of the book is in fact set during that time, with the children taking on various roles (noble, servant, artist) and meeting various famous historical figures of all classes and sides (King Louis, Robespierre, etc.).  Nina and Rowan's loss is the backdrop to the frantic search for Nina before she is hurt or the three are left in revolutionary France permanently.  Further complexity is added by some group dynamic tension, some early adolescent sexual tension, and some social unease over the fact that the twins are black (forcing Xavier for instance automatically into the role of servant). <br />   The book moves along quickly, but at times too quickly, even for the young audience it is aimed at.  Characters, with the exception of Rowan, are not fully fleshed out (this is especially true of the historical characters), and even Rowan remains something less than a three-dimensional character.  Lessons are learned a bit too easily, motivations and intentions shift too quickly, too much is glossed over. <br />The plot is overly contrived at times, the ending is anti-climatic, and some of the tension is robbed by the appearance of the aunts.  The backstory of Nina and Rowan's loss plays out heavily toward the very end, but in expected and clearly foreshadowed fashion and while it can't help but be moving, its impact owes less to skill of story or writing as to simple sentimentalism (it carries, for instance, none of the true pathos that so often overshadows Harry in Harry Potter, another book allegedly aimed at a youthful audience). <br />  The premise obviously leaves itself available for return visits, and the time-travel aspect gives literally a world of opportunity to explore.  Here's hoping Williams and her characters grow into the potential that remains untapped in the first book.	2004-09-02
US	53074803	R235KWJ2ALM9R	0553586211	788454801	1: Lord of Snow and Shadows: Book One of The Tears of Artamon	Books	3	3	4	N	N	uneven but mostly postive start to new series	Lord of Snow and Shadows starts as Gavril, a young relatively carefree painter, learns that he has just inherited rule of the northern kingdom of Azhkendir after his father (whom Gavril never knew) was murdered.  The inheritance has a darker side, however, as his father's line also passes from son to son the Drakhaoul, a creature which lives in their blood and mind and gives them great power at great cost--the eventual transformation of their body and soul.  Kidnapped by his father's personal guard and brought back to Azhkendir both to rule and to avenge his father, Gavril must struggle against the creature inside of him, a warring prince of another country, another claimant to the throne, his father's demanding ghost, his own distaste for vengeance, and a host of people who wish to manipulate him for their own personal and political purposes.  And oh yeah, there's the girl he loves. Or is that girls?  The book is a stand-alone in that it wraps up an entire storyline, but clearly is leading to several sequels. <br />  Ash offers up some pleasant changes of pace from the run-of-the-mill fantasy.  Its major setting, Azhkendir, is a mostly icebound northern country and thus not your usual temperate setting where characters can meander around and camp for days on end with weather or geography being of no concern.  The time setting is also different, offering a more advanced culture than usual, where gunpowder, magic, science, and alchemy exist side-by-side.  The background is more Eastern than Western European, another nice change. <br /> The objectives are more narrow and more personal than most of the epic \\"save the world\\" fantasy out there which is actually an improvement I think.  And the hero's reluctance comes not from having lived in the typical little valley sheltered from the storm of the outside but from a philosophical repugnance against an eye for an eye as well as the more tangible fact that the more he uses his powers the more monstrous he becomes.   <br />  Setting, tone, premise, and general plot are all strengths.  Characterization varies widely.  Gavril is a bit too much of an unknown quantity when the action begins and many of his actions in the first third seem to come out of nowhere.  Why does he feel motivated to protect a people he never knew?  Where does he learn to become a leader of men and a plotter of intrigue?  Once these abrupt shifts are done and he settles into a stable, recognizable character, things improve, though he never really reaches a fully three-dimensional characterization.  The main female character, Kiukiu, a young servant he befriends, is somewhat better drawn, but like Gavril, moves far too quickly and abruptly from immature and somewhat ignorant to a more self-assured master of her own magical gift.  More minor characters, Gavril's first love interest, Gavril's mother, Kiukiu's grandmother, a villainous sorcerer,  are solid if a bit shallow.  Prince Eugene, who attempts to reassemble a long-lost empire by attacking both of Gavril's homelands (where he lived when he was kidnapped and his newly inherited one), gets a lot of space but never really comes alive as a character, though he has moments of complexity which you wish were further explored. <br />  That is probably my biggest complaint.  Snow and Shadows has so many strong opportunities for good writing/storytelling but it often seems to fall a bit flat.  Characters change too easily or too quickly, dramatic moments are glossed over, internal conflicts too easily resolved. And the ending itself is a bit anti-climatic.   <br />   It's a good but flawed beginning and one hopes for some improvement in the next book--deeper characterization, further exploration of motivation and internal conflict, a plot which slows down and develops rather than hops forward quickly and a little awkwardly.  Snow and Shadows is a decent appetizer, but one hopes the food following tastes better.  A solid recommendation with hopes, and expectations, forimprovement.	2004-08-31
US	53074803	R1FJQ1RAJSBGQ6	0385750684	451432025	Edge Chronicles 1: Beyond the Deepwoods (The Edge Chronicles)	Books	3	32	38	N	N	weak start to series but improves in second book	Beyond the Deepwoods is the start to a series which is already long-running in England and is just starting here in the states.  This first book does what one would expect, introduces the world, the major characters, and the major conflicts, but it does so in such shallow fashion that one might be hard-pressed to consider reading on.  I don't know how the rest of the series goes, but I can say that the second novel, Stormchaser, improves in many ways upon the first. <br />  Deepwoods, aimed obviously at a younger audience, is highly episodic, following the breakneck adventures of Twig, a young boy brought up until now by a family of trolls, as he is sent out into the woods to avoid being picked up by Skypirates.  As mentioned,  the book moves at breakneck speed as Twig is rushed from one crisis to another, usually involving meeting up with a horrible deepwoods dweller-trolls, goblins, bloodoaks, etc.  The problem is that each encounter is so brief, each creature so quickly met and dispatched or left behind that none of them ever really linger in the reader's mind; they fare only slightly better than if they had been listed in a glossary at the back.  It reminded me of nothing so much as a group of dungeons and dragons guys sitting around trying to come up with odd monsters to add to their personal monster manual. Some of the creatures are highly inventive, others somewhat dull.  Their names are consistently the best part of all, wonderfully Lewis Carrol-like and just begging to be read aloud.  Older readers may tire of the \\"cuteness\\" by the end, but younger kids are sure to enjoy just repeating the names out loud to themselves again and again. <br />   The end is pretty formulaic and anti-climatic and isn't really earned by what has come before.  What saves the book somewhat are its brevity, the likeability of the main character, and the occasional flashes of inventiveness that showcase the series' potential.  What saves it even more is the fact that the second bookis much more focused, has much more of a sense of narrative, and delves more into Twig's character as well as others. Though it still suffers a bit from shallow side-characters and some moments of weak plotting, it is much better written, more compelling, and finally gives the reader a real reason to continue.  I wouldn't recommend Deepwoods if it stood alone, but as the necessary entry into the better second novel, it's a required step that won't hurt too much.  One final note, while the book will appeal on many levels to young readers, it can turn dark at times. Death does occur and much more frequently and gorily in the second book.	2004-08-30
US	53074803	R1RIPMJ7HT7QMZ	0399242562	236027041	Shadowmancer	Books	1	12	15	N	N	almost unreadable	Usually I won't write a review if a book is this bad, and I've never written one on a book I couldn't finish, but this has gotten so much hype that I thought it needed some counterbalancing.  So no, I didn't finish the book, finally giving up about three-quarters of the way through after oh-so-painfully forcing my way through to that point. <br /> The reasons for not finishing are pretty basic. The characters are mere shadows (no pun intended) of real people, offered up in mostly two-dimensional form with the occasional attempt at depth through clumsy and often lengthy interior exposition. Motivations are either never explored or shift with blinding speed.  The plot is a pretty helpless muddle, filled with inconsistencies, gaps, abrupt shifts, relatively unimportant scenes, and improbable actions all layered through with a hodgepodge of myths and magic.  The Christian agenda, while not a problem in its own right, is so unsubtle. so pasted on that one wonders why the author even bothered to change the names of the major figures.  After a while the direct quotations from the Bible and the portentous sounding descriptions of Biblical events transparently clothed in new place and people names becomes wearying.  <br />  The book is clearly well-intentioned and so I'd like to find something positive to say about it beyond that, but it's hard to do.  There is too much good fantasy out there to invest time in a new series that doesn't meet the basic requirements of good writing, let alone good storytelling.  And calling it \\"young reader\\" doesn't absolve the writer of either failure.  If someone really needs to find some good Christian fantasy for young readers, C.S. Lewis is obviously the place to start.  I don't know of any others myself, but if this becomes the next alternative, I'd say just re-read Lewis; you're bound to get more out of it.	2004-08-30
US	53074803	RZ7JJFF5K5SM3	0385750706	289872732	Stormchaser (The Edge Chronicles, No. 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	large improvement over the first book	Stormchaser is the second book of the Edge series and it is a vast improvement over book one--Beyond the Deepwoods.  The book picks up a few years after Twig's adventures in Deepwoods.  He is now sailing aboard the skyship of his recently-discovered sky-pirate father and has exchanged the monster-horrors of the Deepwoods with the more human horrors of city-life, pollution, and corruption (though monsters still make the occasional appearance).    Whereas Beyond the Deepwoods suffered from being overly episodic, plunging Twig into one-unrelated confrontation after another, Stormchaser is much more focused and has a much better sense of narrative.  The famed sky city Sanctaphrax is at risk of breaking its mooring and taking off forever unless it manages to replenish the rare substance that keeps it from sailing away.  The same substance, in a mysterious alternative form, has also kept the waters that feed Undertown drinkable and the shortage is leading to an ecological and social disaster.  For various reasons, Twig's father is the one sent out on a quest for this rare material and various adventures ensue.    While there is still an episodic sense to the story, it's mostly confined to the book's second half when Twig and others are forced to march through the Twilight Woods and the Mire. Even here though, the encounters are still related to the overall arc of the story, making each encounter more significant and more memorable in comparison to Twig's one-monster-after-another adventures in book one.    The plot is also improved by the move away from conflict based simply on threatened violence (usually in the form of being eaten) to one based on politics, corruption, and intrigue among all types of characters (though being eaten remains a threat now and then).    Characters are also delved into more deeply. We learn more about Twig's father--what forced him into becoming a pirate, why he refuses to acknowledge himself as Twig's father publicly, more about his motivations and personality traits.  Twig is given more opportunities to grow, but these seem a bit contrived and, as in the first one, somewhat formulaic and unearned at times, though not as baldly as in Deepwoods.  A few of the side characters have moments of depth, but overall remain shallow figures.     There is a lot of death in this one, some of it quite grisly, though it is never lingered on, having more the feel of an uncensored Brothers Grimm tale rather than a modern-day slasher flick.      Overall, while Stormchaser still suffers from a few of the first book's flaws, mainly some shallow characterization and some formulaic coming-of-age \\"growth\\" events, it is a major improvement on the first and bodes well for the rest of the series.	2004-08-30
US	53074803	RMUXO3JPXMX2T	1571310444	161260684	Ordinary Wolves: A Novel (Milkweed National Fiction Prize)	Books	4	51	53	N	N	unique pov and strong character overcome flaws--a good read	Ordinary Wolves turns much of what one would expect to read about the \\"natural and native\\" life in Alaska on its head and in so doing has crafted a strong first novel that more than overcomes its flaws.  The story focuses on Cutuk, a white boy who lives outside an Inupiaq village with his sister and brother (both older) and his father, who brought them all (plus their mother who left when Cutuk was very young) to Alaska where he paints and lives close to the land.  We watch Cutuk grow from five or so to young adulthood, wrestling with his place in the world, torn between the wilderness and the city, between modern life and more traditional life, between white and Inuit. In between chapters following Cutuk, we are treated to beautifully written passages set in the animal world and so like Cutuk, we move between the world of humans and the wild. <br />  Part of the joy of wolves is the way expectations are turned around on the reader.  In this novel, Cutuk's family is more \\"native\\" than most of the natives. They live the old way, out of the village in \\"camp\\", eschewing the motorized \\"sno-go's\\" in favor of dogs, trapping in the old style, living in a sod home.  This is not the romanticized Alaska. It is a gritty, dark view of the life there, filled with drugs, suicides, domestic abuse, alcoholism, cruelty to animal, sardonic portrayals of white \\"native lovers\\" or \\"animal lovers\\"(Despite this, the tone itself is rarely as dark, a skillful maneuver on the author's part).  So while the city is as physically and socially ugly as one would expect in a \\"country-city\\" novel, it also has friends and at times its own sort of beauty and so the contrast isn't as simple as usual in these sort of works   <br />  Cutuk is an easy character to care about and his coming-of-age story is realistically and tenderly conveyed.  We get to know him intimately.  His father is also a wonderful character but remains a bit mysterious, a bit of an enigma to both Cutuk and the reader.  On the onehand it would be nice to know more about him, to see more deeply into him, but the sense of distance works in the novel and has something equally appealing about it.  His brother and sister disappear a bit too quickly and are off stage a bit too much, as are a few of the other side characters.  a strong exception is Enuk, an elder native hunter whom Cutuk idolizes as a youth and who is drawn in wonderfully sharp detail, exerting a presence even when he isn't there. <br />   There are some minor pacing issues. Cutuk's introspective passages on not fitting in sometimes get a little repetitive.  There are a few spots where the book lags and it probably could have benefited from more stringent editing.  But these flaws are more than outweighed by the book's strengths:  strong characterization of both Cutuk and his father, beautifully lyrical descriptive prose focusing on the animals, the depth and variety of emotions conveyed, and the underlying deep questions of who am I, how do we balance the modern and the traditional, the sense of self and the desire for society, the natural and the technological, the desire for comfort and the wish to do as little harm in the world as possible? <br />   Read through the few rough patches, enjoy the ride with Cutuk, and let the book's deeper questions linger.  It's well worth the read. Strong recommendation.	2004-08-28
US	53074803	RTFYE1C1JKMO0	0374128715	689175313	The Confessions of Max Tivoli (Today Show Book Club #22)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	great premise, good close, issues in between	Tivoli begins with a fantastic premise with built in pathos, complexity, and tragedy--a man who grows older as his body grows younger.  Unfortunately, while there are times, especially toward the end where Greer rises to the occasion, too often the book fails in its promise. <br />  The book follows the title character as he furtively writes the story of his strange life.  Furtively because most would find it odd to find a 13 year old boy writing a memoir that spans decades.  The book moves back and forth in time, moving mostly chronologically through Max's past life beginning at birth while interrupting the flow periodically to return to the present day Max, writing down his story.   <br />  Max's story, and thus the novel's, focuses almost entirely on his love/obsession for Alice, whom he first met when she was 14 and he was in his early teens wearing the body of an old man. His pursuit of Alice despite his condition forms the crux of his character and the story.  The only other two characters of note are his only friend Hughie and, in a smaller (but wonderful) role, his childhood maid.  Both are aware of the truth about Max, the only two really in the whole novel since his immediate family, also aware, disappears a bit too conveniently. <br />  The narrow focus of the book was a detriment to me.  I thought it forced Greer to pass up too many opportunities to really delve into Max's condition and its impact on him.  Max's obsession with Alice, and his attendant neglect of others around him, also made it difficult to like Max throughout much of the book, a result probably magnified by not seeing him in too many contexts beyond his focus on Alice. <br />   Pacing also was a bit flawed.  There were several places where the book severely lagged and also places (though fewer) where he seemed to leap into somewhat abrupt revelations, many of which were pretty clearly forecast.  The writing was strong, delivering enough wonderful lines, lines that made you stop and linger over them, so that if that high quality wasn't always maintained, it was often enough that the good clearly overshadowed the merely serviceable. <br />  There's a lot of good here.  The book's focus on love, its various forms and deceptions, its creative and destructive potential, is handled quite well and is probably its strongest facet.  The intimacy of Max's voice, in full confessional mode, though trying at times, allows for stronger emotional impact at others and is often made more believable due to its tendency to grate as often as lure.  And the last quarter or so is particularly strong, making the dull patches worth getting through.  Despite all that is good about Max Tivoli though, I could never really escape the feeling that I was skating on the edge of a really great book but never breaking through to that greatness.  Recommended, but guardedly and somewhat disappointedly.	2004-08-25
US	53074803	R1I2QHY0WCLTJ0	0670033596	795101432	Something Rotten	Books	4	4	4	N	N	not as strong but still rewarding	Something Rotten is Fforde's fourth book in the Thursday Next series and the first thing to say about it to new readers is that it's the fourth book for a reason.  While I suppose one could muddle through this without having read the previous three, it will make a lot more sense and be much more enjoyable if you read this series in order.  <br />  As for those who have read the previous novels, Something Rotten will be a welcome addition, though I think it is perhaps the weakest of the four.  The book retains the hallmark style of the others:  a headlong rush of wide-ranging humor (literary wit; slapstick; bad puns; political, social, and economic satire; locker room jokes, etc.), a multiplicity of plotlines (the return of Thursday's husband from \\"eradication\\", the transformation of the evil Goliath corporation into a full-blown religion, the takeover of Hamlet by the Merry Wives of Windsor, an attempted coup of the English govt. by a fictional character, and, of course, the impending end of the world, just to name a few), and a plethora of characters both real and fictional (Hamlet, the Cheshire Cat, Lord Nelson, Bismarck, etc.). <br />   Almost all of the book takes place in the \\"real world\\", a marked change from the previous novel and one which some fans will cheer and others regret.  Bookworld makes its appearance throughout, just less so.  We return to some earlier themes, plots, and characters,  such as time travel, Goliath, Thursday's father, and her old Spec Ops friends. <br />   There is a lot to enjoy here and several scenes are laugh-out-loud-and-get-funny -looks-from-people-around-you funny, but sometimes the humor seems a bit forced or contrived and sometimes it's just plain silly.  For the first time in the series, I found parts of the book lagging in pace.  On the other hand, there is, also for the first time I think, a truly moving emotional scene.  It takes place toward the end and redeems the book far beyond its flaws.  <br />  I have to admit my own personal preference is the literary aspect of the series and so for me, the last book was the best, taking place entirely within that world.  This one had not quite enough of that facet and was a little too much a hodge-podge.  I would have preferred some streamlining, some saving of a few plotlines for future books.  It keeps the ball rolling, catches up to some old characters, fills in the blanks on some others, and introduces some new ones (such as Thursday's son Friday), all while flashing signs of the series' previous brilliance.  I'd recommend it on the basis of that near-end scene alone; without that scene, it would be a solid but not strong recommendation, with hopes that the next book is an improvement.	2004-08-21
US	53074803	R2VFG0R7BAAX42	0446610577	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #1	Books	3	2	2	N	N	sometimes fun is just enough	In Hidden Empire, the whole is greater than its parts.  There are, without a doubt, many flaws in the book.  The chapters are far too short and change perspective far too often, diluting the impact of any particular character or action at the time.  I've never been a fan of this \\"quick-editing\\" style (Tom Clancy does the same) and felt the same way here.  The characters can be a bit shallow, even after spending a few hundred pages with them.  The science is sometimes iffy, sometimes wrong, sometimes just safely unexplained. Some of the plot points are a bit implausible, many of the characters are a bit too naive/ignorant/obtuse with regard to important plotpoints, some actions are telegraphed too obviously.  The dialogue is mostly serviceable.  Some of the ideas we've seen before: the stagnant older race, the brash upstart humans, gas giant dwellers, etc.  And he has a strange and at times maddening stylistic tic of repeating information every few chapters as if the book were being serialized in a monthly magazine and the author needed to remind readers of what they had read so long ago. <br />Despite all these valid criticisms,  however, I found the book a fast enjoyable read and look forward to the sequel.  I can't say I find myself caring too much yet for any individual character, yet most are likable and interesting enough that I don't mind spending more time with them and I'm hoping the characterizations will deepen in subsequent novels in the series.  While the short chapters and shifting points of view are a bit overdone, it does keep the book zipping along and I'm hoping for the same pace but more moderate use of the style later.  And while the basic storyline may be a gathering of elements we've seen before (giant colonizing ships from earth, an older benevolent star-faring race helping mankind get a leg up then worrying if humanity is moving too far too fast, a vanished civilization that left behind intriguing ruins, conflict between a mercantile federation and more independent-minded groups, etc.) Anderson manages to tweak them just enough and mesh them in odd enough fashion that the work as a whole seems more pleasingly original than its separate components. <br />  You won't find deep characterization, stellar literary writing, great dialogue, or hard science in Hidden Empire.  But you will get a good time.  Lots of times that's more than enough.  Recommended (with the warning that this is not a stand alone book--it ends in a cliffhanger).	2004-08-21
US	53074803	R1GOG06Q5AMPPG	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	2	6	8	N	N	not particularly compelling	I might as well start off with the obvious comparisons that have been made between this book and The Da Vinci Code/Umberto Eco.  Yes, there's a search for something long-lost, there are some puzzles to solve, and  there's a focus on lost artifacts/art.  But both Zane Grey and Hemingway have guns in their books and no one so far as I know has confused the two.  Just as no one should think Rule of Four is really all that similar to either Brown or Eco.  I'm not a fan myself of the Da Vinci Code.  I found the dialogue awful, the characterization weak, and much of the plot implausible.  Rule of Four has better dialogue, somewhat better characterization though not much, and suffers equally as much from implausibility.  It also suffers in comparison due to its much more cramped stage--basically the campus of Princeton. <br />  As far as the Eco comparison, I suppose one could say Rule of Four is Eco writ very small and shallow, at least in a superficial comparison with regard to plot/theme. Otherwise there really isn't much of a comparison.  It lacks the depth, the style, the wisdom (as opposed to knowing lots of facts) of Eco. <br />   How does it stand on its own?  Not so well.  As mentioned, the plot suffers from too many implausible actions, as well as from having at its core a manuscript which is too often used as a deus ex machina.  The authors can pull whatever they like out of it and do so with regularity.  The decoding of the book relies on such arcane material that the reader just has to accept at face value the periodic pronouncements--there is no involvement by the reader and no suspense as it's clear the characters will in fact solve (with implausible ease) the manuscript's riddles. <br />  A murder mystery rides alongside the mystery of the manuscript, but this too offers almost no suspense as the cast of characters who could be suspected is far too small, basically giving the reader a fifty-fifty chance from the very beginning of \\"deducing\\" the killer.  With several heavy lines pointing your way, it isn't too tough to figure out even before one of the suspects is killed off.  Seldom is revelation of the killer less of a surprise. <br />  So if the murder mystery isn't compelling, and the manuscript decoding isn't compelling, then what is?  Well, the writers try mightily to make Princeton ritual interesting, but it's a tough sell when your core elements are dining club rushes, nude olympics, and an inward-gazing costume ball.   <br />  what one is left with is the coming-of-age story behind all the arcania and violence.  The problem is that it's the typical end-of-college, will-the-gang-all-stick -together we've seen done again and again, and often in better fashion. <br />  This isn't a horrible book by any stretch. The dialogue at least is for the most part realistic and the non-decoding sections flow pretty smoothly.  The language is solid and hits several high points here and there.  But in the end, it simply isn't a very interesting book.  I almost put it down in several places and my wife simply returned it halfway through when it came due at the library (never a good sign when due dates take precedence).	2004-08-20
US	53074803	RI3EJGEEGKY0Z	0380977893	243431756	The Ships of Air (The Fall of Ile-Rien, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	promising improvement over first book	The Ships of Air, the second book in this series, builds upon the strengths of the first while also improving several of the first book's flaws.  As in The Wizard Hunters, the main character's depth and likeability is a major strength.  Tremaine is a complex character, displaying a variety of emotions and pursuing a variety of actions, some of them not so clearly understood by those around her or even herself.  Several of the side characters from the Wizard Hunters whose characterization suffered a bit from shallowness deepen into more three-dimensional creations here, enriching the overall flavor of the novel and allowing Wells the luxury of dipping into several enjoyable side-stories. The writing moves along crisply and often humorously, another positive carried over from book one.  <br />   Where the first book suffered somewhat from repetitive plot, villains painted in too-shallow pictures, and an over-reliance on Tremaine's sphere as a deus ex machina, Ships of Air suffers from none of these.  The villains, the Gardier, are explained more fully from inside and out.  The storyline finds excitement though expanding existing tensions and adding new points of contention/crisis rather than simply repeating a pattern of capture/escape/capture/escape.  And the sphere plays a relatively minor role to the advantage of both character and plot. <br />   Some of the foreshadowing from book one is resolved here and, as is expected of a bridge novel in a series, new questions arise to tantalize the reader.  If anything, these new questions are more intriguing than the old ones. This, combined with the improvements in plot and character, make this not only a better written book than Wizards, but also a much stronger lure into continuing with the series.  A good recommendation.	2004-08-08
US	53074803	R10V2OP19H5RDD	0380977885	110428537	1: The Wizard Hunters: Book One of the Fall of Ile-Rien (The Fall of Ile-Rien, Bk. 1)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	interesting series start, second book is an improvement	Wizard Hunters has a great opening line. Unfortunately, it never quite lives up to the promise so tantalizingly held out to us.  The good news is the character we meet in that first line, Tremaine,  holds up well throughout the book.  In general, the characterization is one of the book's stronger points.  The story premise is also a highlight, offering up an unusual meshing of cultures--one with magic and science/technology working side by side, another where technology has yet to form and magic is evil, and yet a third (the Gardier), set on invading the first two through a malevolent combination of science and magic.  <br />   The side-by-side use of modern technology and magic adds a welcome freshness to the fantasy, as does the conflict between two cultures, one employing magic and one fearing it, that seemingly must unite to face a common foe.  That conflict and alliance is played out on a small scale in the Wizard Hunters, focusing on a small band of characters thrown together into hostile territory. <br />   As mentioned, characterization is strong throughout and the main character is especially well-drawn and an enjoyable presence.  A few characters could use some more depth, as could the entire Gardier, a weakness Wells addresses in the second book (ships of air).   <br />  The major flaws in Hunters belong to the plot.  It is at times a bit repetitive, but the smooth flow, often breezy tone, and likable characters make this a relatively minor fault.  A larger one is the overreliance on deus ex machina (literally) through Tremaine's use of the mysterious sphere given to her as a child.  It too often pops out just when needed, lessening the sense of tension at some of the more climatic moments.  Happily, this happens much less in the sequel which is overall I think a better book.  The Wizard Hunters is a solid start to an interesting set-up and if the improvement between the first and second book is any sign, the series should only get better.  A solid recommendation with a nod the idea of reading ahead to the second book.	2004-08-07
US	53074803	R38B6MS0EWPORY	0375401466	160007841	Old School	Books	4	17	19	N	N	slimly wonderful	Old School is a small, quietly wonderful book that will not have you on the edge of your seat, laughing out loud, or questioning various societal roles and rules.  What it will do is captivate you in its spare fashion, surround you with a shared sense of love for literature, recall to you your poignant coming-of-age moments, fear, conflicts. <br />  Set at an all boy elite prep school and centering on a young character who has manage to hide that he is middle-class and Jewish, the book centers on the annual writing contest where the winner gets to meet the invited writer of merit personally.  during these years, the visiting writers are Ayn Rand, Hemingway (who doesn't actually appear), and Robert Frost.  The competition is fierce and sparks some questionable acts, all of which are recalled in later years by the narrator.  While he and his friends, along with the adult characters (the dean, some teachers, a teacher's wife), are sparsely drawn, the few details are so rich that the book suffers not at all.  Rand and Frost make strong guest appearances as characters, captured brilliantly and humorously.  Even better perhaps than the characters is their writing--Wolff does a wonderful job of capturing/parodying the adolescent writer and the way in which they tend to mimic established ones--all with a sense of sincerity rather than mockery. <br />    The book is more than a love affair with literature, it delves in its few pages into concepts of honesty, of redemption, of friendship and identity, of shame and healing.  But to be honest, even when these themes cropped up, moving as they were, well-handled as they were, they paled in comparison to Wolff's description of boys drinking literature like water and agonizing over writing like an early love affair. <br />    It's a quick read, but one that should be lingered over.  Don't toss it down in an afternoon though you could.  Spend some time with it, reread some of the better sections, take some trips down memory lane yourself.  Strongly recommended.	2004-07-26
US	53074803	R2UAKV06LM9XJB	1400042070	669988222	The Amateur Marriage: A Novel	Books	3	6	8	N	N	struggle through first half for a satisfying second half	When Tyler is firing on all cylinders, she is utterly brilliant.  When she is just loping along, she's still a great read.  I'll still take a mediocre Tyler novel over most of what I read.  Even when I think the novel ranks in a weaker tier, it still usually moves along smoothly and quickly thanks to her effortless prose and enjoyable, familiar characters.  Amateur Marriage, unfortunately, didn't even attain mediocre level for me until about halfway through; for the first time I had to force myself through a Tyler book, resisting the temptation to put it down in hopes my optimism based on earlier works would  be rewarded. It was, as the second half was much  more enjoyable, but I'm not quite sure it was enough to make it worth the effort. <br />   Most of the familiar elements of Tyler's fiction is here:  Baltimore, a semi-normally dysfunctioning family, somewhat quirky characters.   The problem is that they are here a bit too much.  The characters for me slid quickly over from quirky or idiosyncratic to simply annoying and unlikable, the dysfunction spread a bit too deep and too far, and while her characters often walk the edge of reality, here I found them all too unbelievable in their actions too much of the time.  While previous Tyler characters may seem a bit disconnected from reality, these ones are just not real.  They also don't have the depth or sticking power of most of Tyler's characters.  I cared very little for them or about them and wouldn't have minded the marriage eroding a bit faster. <br />    Things began to change about halfway through as we seemed to slow down to explore characters a bit more intimately and as the characters themselves seemed to settle more realistically, more warmly into their newly plotted roles.  Tyler excels at closing and even in this, one of her weaker efforts, that same ability remains.  The last third is quite moving I thought, which came as a surprise after such a struggle with the first half of the book; I rarely havesuch separate reactions to the same text.  Though that may be simply because I would have stopped reading  most other works sooner but gave Tyler the benefit of the doubt she'd pull it out based on prior readings.  I'm still not sure she did.  There are so many good works out there, and so many great Tyler works out there, that I'm not sure it makes sense to recommend a book that won't reward the reader until halfway through.  If someone specifically wanted to read their first Tyler I'd steer them away from this and toward Homesick Restaurant or Accidental Tourist and then on to a few others not quite as good but still wonderful reads.  If someone is already a fan, they should stick it out as she will reel you back in.  For others, I guess a grudging and slight recommendation because while there are a lot of better books out there, there are even more worse ones, and because the good part, the part most will remember, comes at the end. <br />	2004-07-26
US	53074803	RCR2R3L0TOHBD	0553802089	36238657	Shooting the Sun	Books	4	10	10	N	N	engaging and intriguing read	Shooting the Sun follows a group in 1840 as they head out on the Santa Fe trail to try and photograph for the first time (actually a more advanced form of daguerreotype) a solar eclipse so as to prove the effectiveness of Charles Babbage's prototype &quot;difference engine&quot;, an early &quot;computer&quot; used to predict the timing and place of the eclipse. The proof will then allow Babbage to garner more funds to continue to develop his early calculator. The group is made up of Selena Cott, the young female astronomer/photographer who must overcome the obvious hurdle of her gender; William Pryce, Babbage's financial adviser and a man who has his own reasons for coming along; the expert explorer who sees no place for a woman in the wild; the young artist who scoffs at photography's ability to do any more than capture the sterile surface; the expert astronomer who is threatened both by technology and feminism; and the gruff wagon leader who tries to get them to Santa Fe alive past rough frontier folk, prairie fires, hostile natives, equipment prone to breakdown, their own infighting, and the sheer lost loneliness of the west. Added to the mix in shifts of perspective and geography are Babbage himself as he wends his way through London society and finance and his uncle Richard, who is thought to be dead (though not officially meaning Babbage can't claim his estate) but is actually alive and living with the natives out west. <br /> The characters are strongly portrayed in sharp human detail and grow with the book and their experiences, rather than remaining static creations. Relationships form and erode, trust is offered and broken, strengths and weaknesses are transformed. The journey itself is meticulously detailed and conveys both the sheer wonder and sheer terror of such a journey at the time. One understands clearly both the travails and the reward. <br /> There is a rich mixture of personal conflict over culture, gender, generation, philosophy, sexuality, professionalism, and art. This, combined with the early hints that not everything is as it seems and that some of the characters are carrying secrets creates a wonderful tension throughout the entire work. <br /> The book succeeds in many ways, as history, as travelogue, as character exploration, even as a mystery/suspense novel (though to a lesser extent). By the end, you're sorry to have the journey come to a close. A strong recommendation. <br />	2004-07-25
US	53074803	R138H92JGHTRYR	0385507607	23679385	The Probable Future (Hoffman, Alice)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	possible good read marred by some clumsy plotting/characters	Probable Future had a future. The premise, a family history of girls (the only ones born into the family) coming into a &quot;gift&quot; at thirteen set up as prelude to some family dysfunction has a lot of promise. There are a few very strong characters and some wonderful passages, especially in the latter part. Unfortunately, the story never really lives up to its premise. Stella, newly come into her gifts of seeing people's &quot;probably futures&quot; (seemingly their deaths only), is daughter to Jenny whose own gift of being able to dream other people's dreams led her into an unhappy marriage which has recently ended. She in turn is daughter to Elinor, the stern matriarch whose gift of always being able to spot a lie hasn't prevented her from missing certain truths and has left her, along with some family tragedy, alone and bitter. All three of them are &quot;Sparrow girls&quot; descended from Rebecca Sparrow who long ago was drowned as a witch and who passed on the legacy of a single gift at thirteen. Had Hoffman stopped there and explored the family dynamics she could have had a great tale. Unfortunately, she feels the need to spice it up with some more urgent drama. <br /> The drama comes when Stella tells her dad Will, (a charming man of absolutely no responsibility we are told again and again) that a girl will have her throat slit and asks him to try to prevent it. When it happens anyway he becomes the target of the ensuing investigation due to his strange foreknowledge. The killer then tries to track Stella down to prevent him from being uncovered.  <br /> This is by far the weakest part of the plot. The killer's actions make very little sense, the police and judicial systems are implausible at best in their own actions, Will is far too dim, and the way in which the killer pops up and gets resolved is just very awkwardly handled. All of this from a plot arc that is really unnecessary. <br /> The gifts themselves are handled in clumsy fashion and with a slapdash sort of fashion. Stella sees preventable deaths but only of some people. She knows when they'll die, but only for some people. The visions are metaphorical, except when they're literal. Elinor can spot a lie which she takes as meaning she can spot a liar (I'm not clear on if this is her flaw or Hoffman's), but not always. The gifts conveniently occur for plot movement. They are seemingly never discussed among the women yet somehow there is shared information--either an inconsistency or a section the reader should have seen. The biggest oversight with regard to the gifts is the way in which Stella's seems to have almost no emotional impact on her. A thirteen-year-old girl surrounded by people whose deaths she sees who seems to experience little to no emotion? Thirteen-year-old girls have emotional responses to the new paint on their lockers. The impact of her gift was just too easily glossed over. <br /> There are further flaws of too easy resolutions, too shallow characterization, and repetitive imagery where Hoffman batters the reader a bit too much to make a point or simply doesn't trust the reader to catch an allusion or thematic lead. And then there are simply throwaway lines like a character getting into Harvard due only to their SAT's. Harvard turns down kids with perfect scores; nobody gets in based on their SAT's. <br /> Interestingly, by far the strongest characters are also the oldest--Elinor and her doctor. His characterization stands out for its richness and depth, while hers is not as strong but still a highlight of the book. The doctor's son Hap is not drawn as fully but the details are rich and human. The others are weakly portrayed with some being only two-dimensional. <br /> The historical sections are some of the strongest writing and one wishes there could have been more. Just as one wishes Hoffman could have focused more on the relationships among the three generations without the distraction of the murder or a &quot;bad-boy&quot; disputebetween mom and daughter that seldom rises above sitcom fare. <br /> People who like Hoffman will probably still enjoy the book despite its flaws. It's more a frustratingly weak book than a bad book. But those looking for an introduction to her work probably want to start elsewhere. <br />	2004-07-25
US	53074803	RDWTK6CQQAMAG	0765310015	599137545	Gardens of the Moon (The Malazan Book of the Fallen, Book 1)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	good start for a series that generally improves	It's always a question for fantasy fans: do I really want to read a first book in yet another long series? Remember when we moaned about when everything was a trilogy--now I'll be happy to take a simple three-book series. Wouldn't it be great if you could tell ahead of time if the trip will be worth it? Well, thanks to the quirks of international publication, you can with the Malazan Book of the Fallen. Gardens, the first book, may be the only book out in the States, but there are four others already released in Canada and I'm happy to report that while there are some hit and miss points, and certainly some flaws, overall the series (a projected ten-book one) is well worth jumping into with Gardens of the Moon. <br /> This is gritty world and war fantasy; you won't find slender glowing elves or small sheltered folk. In tone and character, this one is pretty much a direct descendant of Glen Cook's Black Company series (minor digression--if you haven't read that, you should. By the time you're done there should be a few more Malazan books out there--in paperback no less). To recognize the familiarity is not to do any injustice to Erikson, however, whose world is rich in characters, race, and magic and highly original. <br /> There's no point in recapping plot since a) there's too much of it b) it's way too complex c) it starts in the middle really and you'd have to also explain what precedes it and d) it turns out it isn't the plot you thought it was anyway. Suffice to say that the plot is generally one of the book's and series' strengths and involves among other things sundry wars of empire and rebellion, political infighting, and competition among various Ascendants (god-like beings), Gods, and Ascendant Wannabes At times Erickson seems to layer complexity for complexity's sake and sometimes seems to pull a twist out of his, ummm, out of nowhere just because he can, but it's multi-layered and intriguing throughout. And it isn't handed to you. Expect to have to figure some things out, expect to get some things wrong. And don't expect everything to have answers or resolutions or even explanations. Something to look forward to is that explanations/background are almost always forthcoming, if not here than in future books. I kind of like not having every first reference to something (a race, a form of magic, a place) be introduced with a paragraph or page of clumsy exposition--&quot;Why look, it's a Faruvian Waldorf. How strange to see it in this place when we all thought they were wiped out in the third age when Astor the Mighty corrupted all four-legged creatures and waged a war of attrition with . . . \\" The lack of explanation can be frustrating at times, but it's a stimulating frustration. <br /> Characterization is a bit shallow in the first book, partially because there are so many and the plot so layered that it's tough to commit the time to them to give them the depth they need. And Erikson relies a bit too much on telling us what a character is rather than having the trait reveal itself or develop (the undying loyalty some characters inspire, for instance). But many of the characters deepen as the books add up. Those that survive that is. Another welcome touch is that Erikson isn't shy about killing off characters we've spent some time with. the luxury of ten books and hundreds of characters. He also does a much better job with camaraderie than with romance. Luckily, there's much more of the former than the latter so he plays to his strength. <br /> The world creation is original, detailed, and varied. The geography is spacious, covering events on several continents throughout the series. The time period is literally millennia-based which adds to the richness of events. Since some of the characters are immortal (while others strive to be), past is seldom simply prologue here. These are people with long memories, long grudges, and long-lying plans. The basis of the magical system is revealed bit by bit in its interesting and as far as I know highly unique fashion. Alchemy and rough munitions work side by side with the magic as well. <br /> Flaws can be found, as mentioned, in some of the weak characterization and overly complex plotting. And as the books go on Erikson seems to fall prey to a &quot;create the baddest toughest creature in a fight&quot; who then somehow is taken down by someone even tougher despite his being the &quot;toughest&quot; pattern. A equals B and B equals C but somehow A kicks C's butt. that happens a bit too often. <br /> But in the long view (the very long view--these are not slim books and there are a lot of them), the series is a welcome addition to the fantasy genre and Gardens a strong start. Strong enough that when I finished it I went ahead and ordered all the rest from Amazon Canada rather than wait for them to come out in the States. In fact, I had them shipped courier so I could get them before taking off on vacation. The extra money is testament enough to their enjoyment. The books aren't all equal in quality, but the trend is toward improvement, with the noticeable addition of more and better-written humor in the last two. A strong recommendation for this book and the series as a whole. <br />	2004-07-25
US	53074803	R1XCIQ79WMC9L1	0765308185	699827683	The Anvil of the World	Books	3	6	6	N	N	uneven but promising, very funny in places	The first thing that should be noted about Anvil of the World is that though it focuses on a very small group of characters and one main character throughout and follows them chronologically, this isn't really a novel.  Unless it's one with some major transition problems.  Rather, it's three novellas with some large gaps of time between the three different adventures.  Like any collection of stories, then, Anvil tends to be a bit uneven.<BR>The first story, which has the unenviable task of filling in the backstory--who are these people, why are they behaving as they do, what world is this and how does it function, tends to be the slowest-moving one and the weakest, though it isn't without its strong points.  It's funny in places, suspenseful in others, and mostly holds your attention.  If you find it lagging a bit, as I did, continue on, because both the pace and the writing pick up in the rest of the book, as does the humor, though it's already pretty evident from story one.  Some reviewers compare the humor to Pratchett.  Personally, those works never did much for me.  I found these more along the lines of the Robert Asprin Myth series, which I found more enjoyable.  While the humor is uneven, the  not-so-funny parts are outweighed by the laugh-out-loud/read aloud to your neighbor parts.<BR>   The main character is well-drawn, with a mysterious past, a nicely-honed sort of taciturn narration and wonderful reactions.  The other major character, a semi-demon, also grows on you, though his dialogue is at times a bit overdone (annoyingly so when it's meant to depict his childishness).  The rest of the small group range in quality of characterization, with the matronly chef the strongest and sharpest, while others are a bit cliched or too sketchily drawn.<BR>   The world itself is a bit sketchy in the larger details, but where Baker shines anyway is in the small stuff:  sharply humorous details with regard to clothing or festivals or food.  It's easy to forgive the somewhat vague worldview with so much richness in the smaller details.<BR>    As mentioned, the first story, which follows the group as they form (for the first time) a caravan, has a lot of necessary exposition which tends to slow it down a bit.  It still manages, however, to get in some excitement (various attacks on the caravan and other more personal ones) and suspense (what's causing the attacks, who among the caravan is the bad guy).  The second story, more of a murder mystery, has a much better pace and consistent tone to it and adds to our understanding and liking of the characters (though the semi-demon's brother, even more childish, can be even more annoying in places)  The third story maintains the quick pace and strong wit, but its attempt to deepen/broaden the tone meets with mixed success.  The weakest part is the environmental analogy which would have worked fine had it not been so overdone in terms of frequency and obviousness.<BR>   Overall, though mixed, the book was a fast and enjoyable read, with the funniest parts truly laugh-out-loud funny, making it quite easy to forgive the not-so-funny parts or the weaker written areas.  There is clearly room for a sequel, one that I'd certainly pick up without any qualms.	2004-03-17
US	53074803	R2HRP7JIE6NBA9	0060578564	405736572	The Floating Book: A Novel of Venice	Books	3	15	15	N	N	not quite up to its potential, but worth reading/good close	I have to admit that through much of The Floating World, I kept wishing for more.  Sometimes more characterization.  Sometimes more focus. Sometimes more editing.    Sometimes just something more.  At times I found it wonderfully written and moving, at times I considered putting it down for good (mostly the middle section), and by the end I was definitely glad I had kept going.  But at all those times it never felt it quite matched up to its potential of setting or character.  I can see some starting it and never finishing it, but despite its flaws, I'd recommend slogging through whatever tough parts you come across.<BR>  There are a lot of strengths to the book.  The Venetian setting for one, is beautifully described.  But its role goes beyond simple window-dressing.  Lovric does an impressive job of making Venice essential to the story, making it almost a character itself in the way that it impresses itself on the people in the book, the way it causes certain actions and reactions.  It's a masterful job.  <BR>  Some of  the characterization is also extremely well-done, most particularly the couple at the center of the novel who share part of its narration--the printer Von Speyer and his wife.  Watching their marriage through all its highs and lows is at times exhilarating and at others achingly painful.  They are the most realized characters and the most effective ones and the book seldom slips when they remain its focus.<BR>   Other characters, unfortunately, aren't as strongly composed.  Sosia, another major character, starts out strong, but then seems to twist in the wind a bit, stagnating as a character before becoming more and more unlikable.  She is one of those missed-potential examples.  There are places where her character could be redeemed (as a literary character, not in the moral sense) but those points are either glossed over too quickly and come too late, making them ineffective.  In the end, you wanted more from her as a character, wanted to feel more for her.  The same is true for several of the minor characters, such as Sosia's husband or Bruno and Felice, two of her (many) lovers.  Plot events manipulate you into feeling certain things about their relationships, or at least feeling you should feel something, but the emotions aren't really earned by the writing, mostly because the characters aren't drawn sharply or realistically enough.<BR>    The book has some pacing problems I thought.  The opening is somewhat slow, but I'm always willing to forgive that in a book of this sort and in fact it picked up not too far into the book.  Large parts of the middle third or so, however, gave me serious pause and almost convinced me on several occasions to just give up.  The final third, though it maintained some of the book's flaws, moved along more quickly and more movingly, culminating in a strong close.<BR>    Structurally, the book moves back and forth in time and narration. There are periodic jumps to letter written from Catullus to his brother detailing his life in Rome, the motivation for/creation of/reaction to his poems (the present-time publication of which is one of the major focuses in the book).  The letters are interesting in their own right and the parallels between his time and what is happening in Venice, both in terms of events and characters, quickly become clear.  At times, almost too clear and on at least one occasion near the end, I thought one of the past revelations weakened the book's ending rather than enhanced it.  Whether you  like the use of this structure is probably a matter of personal taste; I found it effective at first and less so as the book went on.  In either case, it's easily followed.<BR>  The narrative shift is equally clear but much more effective and in contrast to the time shifts, grows more so as the book goes on, adding intimacy and an emotional weight that a third-person narration wouldn't quite achieve.<BR>  Overall, the book was disappointing, more in relation to whatyou felt it could have been.  The strengths of the book were so strong that they tended to highlight its weaknesses, so you were left with a lot of &quot;what if&quot; feeling.  Still, if they did highlight the weaknesses, those same strengths also made the book, in the end, worth reading.  Recommended, but with some sorrow, and with understanding should some not finish it.	2004-03-17
US	53074803	R1Q56JBB6NHFXP	1582348391	422733325	Stravaganza City of Stars	Books	3	10	14	N	N	better than first but still flawed	Middle books in trilogies often suffer the problem of being just a \\"bridge\\" work that adds very little to overall plot or characterization within the main storyline.  Hoffman manages to avoid this pitfall nicely but making wholesale changes in focus for her sequel to City of Masks.  The story still involves travel between our world and Talia, an alternate 16th century Italy,  though the specific setting is no longer Belezza (Florence) but Remora, a parallel Sienna about to run it most famous and important horse race.  And while Mask characters reappear, the major focus is on several brand new characters: Georgia, a young girl from our world unhappy with her step-brother and overall social situation; Cesare, a young Remoran jockey, and several  new di Chimici's, whom fans will recall are the villains of the series, though this novel shows that not all family members have the same goals.<BR>  City of Stars displays the same descriptive strengths as Masks, with Remora visualized in vivid, detailed splendor, though at times while the many twists and turns of the factions in Remora are explained the reader may wish for slightly less detail or complexity.<BR>  The plot of Stars, while centered on a lot of political intrigue as in Masks, is more concrete and focused and with the addition of a few characters whose allegiances remain unknown, overall more interesting and compelling, though the book suffers from the same abstractness with regard to the Stravaganti themselves.  The plot is also hurt a bit by the book's length, which is overlong by about a 100 pages I'd say--detracting from the suspense and creating a few scenes that bog the reader down while seeming superfluous.<BR>  Characters remain a bit thin.  As in Masks, females do well, with Georgia a relatively strong character, especially in comparison to Cesare who is not particularly well-developed.  Georgia's stepbrother, unfortunately, is a bit cartoonish and her parents may as well not be there (a step back fromMasks where Lucien's mother added a great deal of emotional depth).  Lucien, Arianna, Rodolfo, and the Duchessa reappear, but not to any real deepening of character, though the concept of the attraction between Arianna and Lucien is highlighted and made more complex by the addition of several near-age characters to themselves (including one who proposes to Arianna).  Gaetano, one of the new di Chimici's, is solid,  but it would have improved things to get a sense of just why he doesn't necessarily go along with his family's machinations, a sense of development to the point we see him at.  The same is true of his brother Falco, who has suffered a crippling accident and hopes to convince Lucien and Georgia to take him into our world where he could be cured.  His desire and will to do so is probably the book's strongest plot line and is well-handled throughout, especially the effect of his actions on his family, adding some strong emotional impact into the mix at the end.<BR>  Overall, though Stars is a flawed book, it seems an improvement on Masks and would bode well for continued improvement in plot and character for book three.	2004-02-04
US	53074803	R74B8XAPT1WPL	1582347913	940764419	Stravaganza City of Masks	Books	3	6	10	N	N	solid start to trilogy but some flaws-- a bit thin	City of Masks, the first book of a projected trilogy (does one even need to say that anymore when discussing fantasy?), is an \\"other world\\" novel, one where characters from our world can travel back and forth to another, in this case an alternate history 16th century Italy known as Talia.  These travelers (and it works both ways) are known as \\"stravaganti\\", thus the series title. While this book takes places in this world's version of Venice (Bellezza), others in the series will range elsewhere (book two for example is set in an alternate Sienna).<BR>  City of Masks is young adult fiction and has the thinness that one expects from books aimed at younger readers.  One pleasant exception to this is the detail of the city of Belezza itself and later Venice itself as the main character first reads up on the parallel city then visits it with his parents.  The physical descriptions of Belezza, its festivals, and some of its rituals and religion are all vividly drawn, allowing the reader to truly feel he/she is entering a solid place along with Lucien, the young teen main character.<BR>   Unfortunately, the underlying magic which allows for Lucien's travel isn't handled as strongly.  He enters Belezza via a \\"talisman\\", an object from Belezza brought by a Talian stravaganza to our world for this purpose.  Beside the difference of four centuries between Talia and our world, the movement of time itself isn't always dependable; one may spend a day in the real world while a week passes in Talia.  All of is covered a bit sketchily, as are other examples of magic (viewing mirrors, teleportation, etc.).  The same scarcity of detail is evident in the discussions of the \\"brotherhood\\" of stravaganti, who are aware of one another and meet now and then.  Young adult doesn't necessarily mean things have to be stripped down or simplified, witness the very detailed and precise explanations of magic in Leguin's Earthsea series or Harry Potter or more recently the Bartimeus series.  This book suffers in comparison to those in its fullness and depth.<BR>  Characterization is solid if a bit thin.  Lucien, one of two main characters, has cancer in our world and so his journeys to Talia, where he is hale and healthy, are not simply adventures to be enjoyed but something much more important to him personally.  On his first visit, he meets 15-year-old Arianna, a vibrant, headstrong girl who has little care for stultifying rules and regulations, such as ones saying only boys can be \\"mandoliers\\" (gondoliers for the Duchessa) or that young unmarried women have to wear masks.  He also meets the Duchessa and Rodolfo, the Stravaganza who brought Lucien's talisman to earth and the Duchessa's lover and advisor.<BR>   Lucien has entered Belezza at a time of great danger for the Duchessa, who is trying to keep her city out of the clutches of Talia's most powerful family, the di Chimici, who have managed to force all other cities under their rule.  There is a lot of political maneuvering (including use of violence) between the Duchessa and the di Chimici ambassador, and Lucien finds himself repeatedly caught up in the middle, sometimes willingly and sometimes accidentally.  On top of the politics, the di Chimici are aware of the Stravaganti (though not of specific ones) and wish to turn this ability to travel  between worlds to their own nefarious ends.  Like the magic, this facet of the book, the di chimici's knowledge and their purposes, suffers from being overly vague.  The political infighting, however, is fully and clearly explained.<BR>   So Lucien and Arianna find themselves taking part in the fight to keep both Belezza and the Stravaganti independent.  Meanwhile they have their own personal issues to work out, both individual ones as well as the question of their own attraction to one another.  Finally, there is Luciens' plight back home with regard to his illness.<BR>  The female characters truly stand out as the more vivid and interesting, particularly Arianna and the Duchessa, though a few others as well stand out despite their small roles.  Lucien's character is a bit weak and somewhat predictable, and Rodolfo as well isn't as strong a presence as it seems he's meant to be.  The political intrigue is exciting and interesting, the background battle over the magic less so, mostly due to the lack of detail.  Older readers will probably see much of the plot coming, but in a sign of some strong writing, that won't really detract much from some of the book's later emotional impact.<BR>  Overall, the book is solid with its weaker points well-balanced by the strength of the rich description of Belezza.  It isn't a great compelling start, but it is interesting enough and shows enough flashes to keep you reading along.  The second book, City of the Stars, shifts locale and main character somewhat (though Lucien, Arianna, etc. all play large roles in it, just not as the major characters) but continues at about the same level.  The plot is stronger and more compelling, the characters a bit less so, and the descriptions of parallel Sienna equally as rich as those of Belezza.  If the third book can employ that same vividness with regard to the characters and story of the third book, it will be a winner. As is, City of Masks is somewhat recommended (more strongly for those seeking strong female characters), but it isn't as strong a young adult fantasy as some others out there, both classic and contemporary (such as Leguin's Earthsea and McCaffery's Dragonsinger series for older works or the Amulet of Samarkand and Gregor the Overlander for newer ones).	2004-02-01
US	53074803	R3PN6WKS81KAID	0393324893	514407322	Readings: Essays and Literary Entertainments	Books	4	8	8	N	N	wide-ranging romp through reading	A collection of his columns from the Washington Post's Book World, Dirda's book is a fun hodgepodge of short, readable essays on a variety of book-related topics.  While many of them, as one would expect, are discussions of books themselves, Dirda also spins off into other areas, such as fond memories of a favorite English teacher, childhood trips to the library, the joy of book shopping, etc., which makes this collection more varied, more personal, and in the end more interesting than a simple &quot;review&quot; style collection.  That's not to say the reviews aren't worth it--they are intelligent, concise, and witty and the sheer variety of books discussed in terms of style, tone, genre, enhances their interest.  Dirda not only holds your interest, he piques it as well, so keep a pen handy as you read so  you can jot down the titles of books you're going to want to pick up after Dirda finishes telling you about his experiences with them.  One word of caution--if you've read his memoir An Open Book, some of these pieces will sound familiar as they have been incorporated with some changes in the memoir.  If you haven't yet read the memoir, don't let that turn you off from doing so.  It's certainly worth its own read, reworked and in a more full context the familiar columns won't seem as repetitive as you'd think, and if you want, you can always just skim through those sections.	2004-01-31
US	53074803	RFKT74P1RF16Y	0395927218	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	3	21	25	N	N	sharp sometimes poignant details don't add up	Lahiri's debut novel exhibits many of the positive attributes of her justifiably esteemed short story collection Interpreter of Maladies--an exquistely honed sense of detail, an intimate sense of character, a quietly controlled emotional tone-- but the requirements of a novel aren't always the same as a good short story, and despite Lahiri's obvious strengths as a writer, The Namesake falls a bit flat.<BR>  The Namesake charts two generations of the Ganguli family,  following Ashoke Ganguli through a nearly-fatal and life-changing train accident, his subsequent move to America and then his arranged marriage to Ashima, who never really feels comfortable in America.  Their son, Gogol, is the title character and after his birth the focus of the book shifts to him, following him through his childhood, youth, and adulthood, tracing the various arcs of his career, love life, and relationship with his family and culture.<BR>  As in her short stories, Lahiri is a master of the telling detail, whether it be a description of a character's cooking or the interior of a house or the small dynamics of a party.  In her short stories these lead quickly to characterization and often realization,  but in this longer work they sometimes bog the story down or feel repetitive, despite the many gems that sparkle throughout. <BR>  While the shift in focus to Gogol allows for further exploration of family and immigration, Lahiri drops the parents a bit too wholly (especially the father) in the middle, though we come back nicely to Ashima later in the book.  Other characters suffer as well in relation to Gogol, especially all of the female characters.  His sister may as well not exist and the various loves of his life seem more like plot devices than fully realized chararacters, one of them skirting pretty closely in the description of her and her parents to stereotype.  <BR>  The sense of dislocation felt by first and second generation immigrants is fully and sharply conveyed, though at times the reader is told this rather than shown it.  The tugging emotions of family are more nuanced and moving in their depictions (though here is where the sister's weakness as a character is a major detriment).<BR>  The structure is straightforward chronological which is a problem in such a quiet book filled with such lengthy detail.  Gogol is interesting but not particularly compelling; a less straightforward approach could have compensated for this somewhat. As it is, though, I found the book slow-moving, not in a langorous enjoyable kind of way but more in the impatient to  skim some detail way.  By the latter third I found myself tempted to simply put it down, though I did persevere.  The end is admittedly moving, but I'm torn between saying it earned that emotion and saying that it cheats a bit with some easy sentimentality in the last page or two.  It's debatable.<BR>  In the end, while there is some beautiful craftsmanship here, some truly poignant moments and fine detail, I can't recommend it all that highly due to its sketchy side characters, its uneven pace, and general lack of compelling story,  though I think what's here bodes well for her next novel, which I'll definitely pick up.	2004-01-26
US	53074803	R1VYLALVC6OF4G	0399150749	469344396	The Opposite of Fate	Books	3	16	25	N	N	Aptly titled uneven collection	I suppose one shouldn't expect much from a book titled &quot;Musings&quot;, and truth be told, I didn't rush out to pick this one up as I usually do with Tan's works based simply on that title--it seemed to advertise too clearly that there really wasn't going to be much here.  Now that I've read it, I have to say my instinctive reaction to the title was correct.  While there are some good pieces here, none are really exemplary, many are simply solid, and some don't even quite attain that standard.  While most collections by their nature tend to be somewhat uneven, this one leaned more toward the weak side.<br />  Part of the problem, I think, is that I had no sense of a larger narrative or overarching theme or vision.  I wouldn't expect that from a simple anthology, such as Best American Short Stories (of which Tan's intro for is included), but from a single author, even if they have a variety of styles and themes, one usually walks away with a sense of a single voice.  While Tan focuses a lot on three major topics--her relationship with her mother, visions of herself as a writer through her eyes and others', and her own mortality, they never really hang together; the whole is less than the sum of its parts, and the sum of its parts doesn't really add up to too much as it is.<br />  Another problem for fans of Tan is that some of this may be too much treading over similar water, though if your information about her is based on internet &quot;research&quot;, as she points out in a witty section, you may know less about her than  you think you do.<br />  The pieces are all pretty straightforward, in style, structure, tone, and intent.  It would have been nice to have broken up some of that with some more daring pieces, or pieces that were just different.  Because so many of these are reprints (including an essay she wrote when she was eight.  Of interest perhaps, worth including in a collection not so sure), she is somewhat limited in what she could do, but all the more reason to have sat down and written some new pieces.<br />  The sections on her mother are so plainly written and sometimes in so much relation to her novels or her writing that they seem of interest only in regard to her writing.  Unlike, for instance, one of the better and shorter pieces where she relates a time her boyfriend and family came to her house for dinner.  In its brevity, its independence, and its humor, it stands out for its refreshing nature--more of that would have strengthened the collection.<br />  The writing pieces again are so straightforward in their style and message (don't expect me to represent &quot;minority culture&quot; or &quot;this is how I wrote . . . ) that while they hold some interest in terms of content, they are not particularly compelling.  One gets the point relatively soon and since the writing doesn't hold much interest, neither does the rest of the piece once you've gotten the point.<br />  The essay on her long-delayed diagnosis and struggle with Lyme's Disease is tragic, but told in a point-by-point, day-by-day fashion so that it reads almost more like a third-person article in a weekly magazine than a first-person essay.  I felt the tragedy intellectually, rather than have it created by the writing on page.<br />  There are a few strong pieces here, mostly I thought the shorter ones.  And in the longer essays some strong sections.  And the content, as I've said, is interesting if not compelling.  Mostly it feels like a nice comfort meal.  It leaves feeling not hungry, but you also don't feel like you've really eaten.  What's missing is a sense of taste, of flavor, of richness:  richness of style, of structure (especially in counterpoint to her novels), of language.  All of which one expects from Tan based on her novels.  I confess to feeling a bit uneasy in this criticism, as her last essay makes clear writing has been difficult if not impossible for her for quite some time.  So maybe this book is simply a placeholder for both her and her publisher, a reminder that she's still &quot;out there&quot; working.  In the end, she says that there are more of those &quot;golden days&quot; when the writing comes more fully; I hope those days continue to increase in frequency so that we'll once again be rewarded with the fullness of voice we've come to depend on.th her and her publisher, a reminder that she's still &quot;out there&quot; working.  In the end, she says that there are more of those &quot;golden days&quot; when the writing comes more fully; I hope those days continue to increase in frequency so that we'll once again be rewarded with the fullness of voice we've come to depend on.	2004-01-22
US	53074803	R2K3TFVOEH8POE	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	4	5	5	N	N	overly long and flawed,  but eventually, cumulatively moving	this one was a tough rating for me.  I eventually gave it a four for the fact that it kept me reading for 500 plus pages and for its ending,  which left me extremely moved and saddened.  But I was close to dropping it to a three for its many flaws (one of which being that it was 500 plus pages).  So fair warning, I think you'll be more than happy if you finish it and reach the powerful ending, but don't be surprised if you don't finish it, or get there a bit annoyed.<br />  The plot basically a love story between normal Clare, whom we see from ages six to eighty and her husband the main character, who is unstuck in time and moves freely back and forth between his present, his past (mostly) and his future (rarely), arriving sometimes in familiar places and sometimes not and always arriving naked.  The structure, as one might expect, is complex, with constant shifts in time and also many conversations which do the same, as Henry speaks with people who know sometimes more of his present/future than he does.  Beside shifting in time, the book also shifts perspective, moving from Clare to Henry and back.  While the structure is complex, however, it is seldom confusing, as the book moves inexorably forward in the reader's mind, despite the many \\"sidetrips\\".  Don't mistake \\"not confusing\\", though, with \\"easy\\".  This is not a book to pay secondary attention to while watching television and is probably best digested in as few sittings as possible so as to retain the many plot references to past and present.  Overall, it is a stimulating, smooth ride.<br />  Clare is a strong character and one whom we get to see develop from a young child to a mature woman. Her voice is consistent and likable despite the time changes and her parts were often my favorites.  Henry is a more complex character, and the reader may find some shifting attitudes toward him.  The author is unafraid to make him unlikable in places and he is at times strangely removed for being the focus of several hundred pages.  He isn't as sharply defined as Clare and sometimes when he is, it is too much through broad statements rather than revealing action.  By the end, though, he has grown enough on you so that what happens has a strong impact.<br />  Side characters are unfortunately all too quickly sketched and sometimes seem to be more plot devices than full characters.  This is true of almost all of them I found and while a few have some rich potential, their lack of development of it is all the more annoying.  the book seemed overly long to me, with the author crossing the line here and there between reinforcement of theme/character and repetition.  I  think it would have been a more compelling read 100-150 pages shorter, or if some of those 500 pages had been rebalanced a bit to fill in some of the other characters beside Clare and Henry.  I could also have done without the graphic sex/discussions, not from any prudish point of view but because they just seemed utterly out of place and at times out of character.  In other words, they pulled me out of the book rather than along with it.<br />  Even with some problems with character and plot and some triteness, by the last quarter, the book picked up and became compelling both in terms of plot and emotions, and the last few sections are, as I've said,truly moving and well-worth the journey to get there.<br />  In the end, I'd recommend the book pretty highly and tell people not to feel bad about skimming here and there (I know, I know, but you all know you've done it yourselves :)d pages.  He isn't as sharply defined as Clare and sometimes when he is, it is too much through broad statements rather than revealing action.  By the end, though, he has grown enough on you so that what happens has a strong impact.<BR>   Side characters are unfortunately all too quickly sketched and sometimes seem to be more plot devices than full characters.  This is true of almost all of them I found and while a few have some rich potential, their lack of development of it is all the more annoying.  the book seemed overly long to me, with the author crossing the line here and there between reinforcement of theme/character and repetition.  I  think it would have been a more compelling read 100-150 pages shorter, or if some of those 500 pages had been rebalanced a bit to fill in some of the other characters beside Clare and Henry.  I could also have done without the graphic sex/discussions, not from any prudish point of view but because they just seemed utterly out of place and at times out of character.  In other words, they pulled me out of the book rather than along with it.<BR>  Even with some problems with character and plot and some triteness, by the last quarter, the book picked up and became compelling both in terms of plot and emotions, and the last few sections are, as I've said,truly moving and well-worth the journey to get there.<BR>  In the end, I'd recommend the book pretty highly and tell people not to feel bad about skimming here and there (I know, I know, but you all know you've done it yourselves :)	2004-01-18
US	53074803	R1IZNYMNCT7F35	0060931221	239322111	The Last Report on the Miracles at Little No Horse: A Novel	Books	3	35	40	N	N	uneven:  slow start, solid middle, strong close	I had a lot of varying reactions to this book, but in the end I'd say it's worth a read with a big caveat that you'll need to get through what I found to  be a pretty uninteresting and eventually inconsequential beginning.  The book follows former nun Agnes as she transforms herself into the deceased (though no one but her is aware of it) Father Damien, newly installed priest at the reservation of the title.  The story moves back and forth in time between the start of her transformation and the near-end of it as Damien is being questioned by another priest with regard to possible sainthood for a reservation women.  The story also slips aside to offer many digressions and stories within stories involving other characters and the history of the reservation people.  The wealth of characters and shifts in time make this a relatively complex read and I 'd recommend reading it in as few sittings as possible so as to remember who is whom and when and where.  For those who may find it difficult to read quickly, there is a helpful genealogical chart inside the front cover (or at least, there was in my edition).<BR>  While the Agnes/Damien character needs to be set up for us and motivation created for her to take on the role she does, I found this opening section (about 60-70 pages) relatively uninteresting and at times overwrought in its writing (in particular its description of music and sex).  I usually give a book 40-50 pages before considering giving it up, and had this not been a book for my wife's book club (we like to co-read and discuss) I'm not sure I would have continued. I'm glad I did, but the story really didn't hold any interest for me until Father Damien appeared on the reservation, and even then it didn't really get compelling until about halfway through.  From that point on it steadily strengthened and the last (well, almost last) sections I found utterly beautiful.<BR>  Father Damien becomes more and more interesting, more and more human, more and more compelling a character as the story moves on.  Several other characters are equally strong--natives Nanapush and Mary, young Lulu, an apprentice priest--but others are too vaguely drawn in relation to their importance to the story; it would have made for a stronger book to have had them drawn a bit more fully.<BR>  Stylistically, the book has many beautifully evocative passages, but just as many overwritten passages where the prose goes over the top.  Luckily, the best writing comes at the end, drowning out some of the memory of the bad.<BR>  There is a nice tight thematic structure to the book I thought, centering around religion and love and sin and obligation, with nearly all the stories, main and side, touching upon those subjects.<BR>  While the structure is complex, with its shift in focus and character and time, it isn't overly so and not all that difficult to follow.  Though many of the digressions were entertaining and also thematically connected, a few of them seemed out of place in tone and style, almost as if she had a few extra short stories lying around and decided to toss them in.  Part of my negative reaction to them may be due to the fact that I have not read Erdich before, and it seems these characters are well known to fans of hers.  Perhaps they enjoyed seeing more of them, but I could have done with less.<BR>  Overall, the book has some major weaknesses:  a very slow quarter and only somewhat better second quarter, some over the top language and metaphor, an unnecessary endnote section (I'd prefer the book ending two chapters earlier), a relatively uninteresting \\"hanging question\\" (will the woman be sainted or not, who murdered one of the reservation people years ago).  But in the end, the character of Father Damien and Erdich's penultimate section filled with beautiful language and thought redeems the book.  Recommended with caveat, and if you find yourself putting it down early, try skipping ahead and trying again.	2004-01-16
US	53074803	R3DL2HI9BM46UG	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	3	8	10	N	Y	solid fill-in-the-gaps book but not up to par	With New Spring, Jordan offers himself up to two major criticisms  up front.  One is for releasing a prequel when you haven't finished the first series yet and the other is for trying to grab a quick book by just padding out an already published first story.  With regard to the first, I think it's pretty silly to complain about an author's choice of subject--perhaps he became inspired with something in terms of the  back story and is excited to write it, perhaps he needs to flesh out the backstory before continuing with the original series, maybe he just has writer's block and is using this as a tool to work through it.  Whatever his reasons, fans have no claim as to what an author writes, frustrating as that choice may be. <BR>  As for the second criticism, I haven't read the original short, so I can't speak as to how much this is \\"padded\\" and how much is really new, but since it's the first book of a projected three-book prequel, it seems the criticism once again isn't valid.  Perhaps he could have made this one longer and made it a two book series, maybe he was caught by deadline, but he's obviously going well  beyond the original if he's going to end up with over a thousand pages.  And since many people new to Jordan might  begin with this storyline, why not give them a standalone book since it's likely they haven't read the original.<BR>  So does the book stand up when considered by itself and not as a quick buck or a slap at the faithful?  Yes, though in workaday rather than exciting fashion.  <BR>   If you haven't read any Jordan, this isn't a bad place to start as it is a much stripped down, easier read with a lot of good information.  If  you are in the midst of the original series, it serves the purpose of filling in some gaps and expanding a bit on the characters,  but in  book one at least there is nothing essential or particularly compelling.<BR>  The book follows Moraine and Siuan (among many other familiar Aes Sedai) through their later training, their acceptance into the sisterhood, and their race against the Black Ajah to find the Dragon Reborn (it begins with the prophecy of his birth).   A parallel story which eventually, unsurprisingly to fans, converges with Moraine's is that of Lan, the king of the lost city as he works his way back home from the Aiel War.<BR>  While fans obviously get a lot more information on Moraine, Siuan, and Lan, I can't say that it really deepens their characterizations much (with the single strong exception of one of the closing scenes involving Moraine).  We have seen them through so many pages now in so many situations that it would be difficult to give us much more insight (as opposed to just more background information).  And because we know them so well, or have heard much of this in some fashion if only in hints and bits, it doesn't read as compellingly as the other books, always a danger in writing prequels involving many of the same characters.  For instance, how much anxiety can we really feel for Moraine as she faces a Black Ajah when we know she appears on the scene in book one of the original series relatively no worse for wear. The same for the other characters for  whom we  have no fear of death.<BR>  The characterizations themselves sometimes slide a bit into caricature or repetition.  The bottom-pinching references in particular come a bit too frequently and trivialize the characters somewhat, especially if one knows them in later form.<BR>  The story itself is a bit slim for three hundred plus pages in terms of action or character development. In the other books, Jordan's richness of detail combines with a lot of action to give us thousand-plus page books.  Nearly the same level of detail in a book a third the normal length means not a lot really happens.  It is a less complex read as it focuses only on two storylines which eventually come together.  Less complex means it's more tight, but also not as rich or stimulating.  And some of the detail on specific Aes Sedai rituals or Cairhen royalty I could have done without.  When Moraine is facing the trial of a 100 weaves, I began to have panic attacks that Jordan would actually go through all one hundred, weave by weave by weave.  He didn't, but you know he was tempted.  This same level of detail may seem a matter of course in a much longer book, but here it stands out and bogs down the book a bit.<BR>  All in all, Spring serves as a good, quick overview (almost like an outline relative to Jordan's other works) to the backstories of several major characters.  With much of the exposition and necessary \\"meeting up\\" of characters out of the way, there is more room for the typical richness and characterization of the original Dragon books--I hope he attains it.  Recommended but not with a lot of excitement.	2004-01-15
US	53074803	R33FK7WEPQFAHT	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	good browsing book--informative and enjoyable quick read	As one might expect from a columnist, Stiff is a collection of mostly short, somewhat breezy chapters, each detailing a particular aspect of &quot;life after death&quot;, or more accurately, death after death.  Substance-wise, the book is for the most part entertainingly informative, with more than enough detail to inform and interest while still allowing the writer (and the reader) to get in and out of a particular section relatively quickly.  This  holds true for almost the entire book, though as is typical of such a construction, some chapters hold more substantive details than others and some are better paced than others.  It's surprisingly consistent in quality though; I personally felt only one or two chapters could do with a lot more cutting and perhaps slightly more could do with a bit more substance or depth, though none were lacking so much as to be a severe detriment.<BR>  For the most part, Roach does not offer up stomach-turning detail, preferring to merely make clear that she could do so if she wishes.  That isn't to say there aren't some points you may wish she had been less true to the facts, but if you're reading a book with the word &quot;cadaver&quot; in the title, I assume you know what you're getting into.  The interesting details are less in the physical occurrences of what happens to the human  body in death (though this is covered in some sharp detail in chapter three) as to what use the bodies can be put or in some of the most interesting cases, have been put in the historical past, as Roach examines the use of corpses in car testing, medical school practice, organ donation, etc.  <BR>   Stylistically, Roach maintains a mostly amused and amusing distance, sometimes self-deprecatingly so.  It is not a particularly reflective book, which would lower its ranking in my mind, but at least it doesn't aim at that and fall flat or sound pompously introspective.  The humor certainly lightens what could obviously be a very dark book and is mostly usedeffectively, though sometimes it's a bit strained or adolescent, causing the occasional wince or two.  But again, the book being titled &quot;stiff&quot; should give you some clue before going in as to what the tone will be throughout.<BR>   Since the chapters are not really interrelated or self-referential, the structure of the book makes it a good browsing or &quot;parallel&quot;  book--one you can pick up at scattered times or to take a break from that long, slow novel you're reading.  And if you find some of the chapters to glide too quickly over interesting material, they make for good jumping off points--giving a solid overview and offering up lots of opportunities for further reading.  A bit more depth here and there, a little better judgment on some of the joking banter with the reader, and some more reflective moments and this would have been an excellent book.  As it is, it's still a good one and quite enjoyable	2004-01-13
US	53074803	R5H869X7QMNWV	0441010601	193642929	In The King's Service (Kurtz, Katherine)	Books	4	32	32	N	N	not among her best but still pretty strong	In the King's Service is the beginning of a new trilogy which details the recent history of the kingdoms that led to the events of her original series focusing on King Kelson, Alaric, et. al. (beginning with Deryni Rising).  Though I suppose it could be read independently, I certainly wouldn't recommend it and advise people new to this world to start with her first trilogy (or possibly go chronologically starting with Camber series depending on taste).  For most of us long-time readers of Ms. Kurtz's series, this begins to fill in one of the more interesting gaps in its timeline.  While we see a few minor familiar characters, the ones we are probably most desirious of seeing (Alaric, Duncan,  Kelson) don't yet appear in this work, which is a generation earlier.  Well, one does but as a baby and not until the very end and since his dialogue would pretty much be &quot;uurp&quot; and &quot;bbbllhttt&quot;, it doesn't really count.  Kelson's father appears as a  young child and one looks forward to seeing how his relationship with Morgan evolves over the trilogy's action.<BR>   King's Service doesn't reach the higher levels of the Deryni works, an admittedly quite high standard, but it doesn't fall far below.  Probably the biggest reason for its falling short is its time setting and structure.  Unlike many of her other novels, which focused in sharp, vivid detail on a lot of characters over a relatively brief period of time; King's Service keeps the plethora of characters but stretches out the events over years and  years.  Unfortunately this lessens the overall emotional impact of many of the scenes as we quickly move on to more action, sometimes months or years later.  It is also difficult to really get to know most of the characters because we move so freely and widely in time and space and number of characters.  Some of them have potential were they to  be carried into the next book, but as many readers will know, Ms. Kurtz is not leery of killing off major characters and she does so several times here, though she does tuck a few away for safekeeping until the next book.<BR>  Alyce Corwyn, who will be Morgan's mother (as fans will know so nothing given away here), stands out as the strongest and most vividly realized character, though still not in the vein of earlier Deryni inhabitants; her appearance in the next book may raise her to that level however.<BR>  Other characters remain a bit shadowy and tenuous.  One character in particular stands out as a bit two-dimensional, seemingly brought on stage only for a needed major plot point, making her appearance and actions seem a bit forced.  King Donal is portrayed as a man torn between his desire for justice and right and his desire to protect his kingdom and especially his heir.  Here again, the characterization falls a bit shallow; it would have been nice to have seen his torment more often and more fully.  As it is presented, it reads a bit hollow since it occurs so quickly.<BR>  The various plot lines will seem familiar to fans:  Mearan rebels, Torenthi incursions, church antipathy toward Deryni, a king trying to protect his lineage, various coming-of-age stories.  Their familiarity bleeds them a bit of intensity, as does the fact that Kurtz is showing the earliest stages of many of  these problems which lead to the full blow-up of most of them in Kelson's time.  But if they pale somewhat in intensity and originality, they still retain the ability to compel interest and at times move the reader.  I can't say I avidly and breathlessly turned every page, but I still wanted to and enjoyed reading it in a single setting.  A few plot points felt forced and I have to say the closing scene involving Brion I found utterly implausible which coming at the end left a little  of a bad taste.  But she manages to mostly avoid the pitfall of many prequels--the sense you sometimes get that  writer is simply working mechanically backward filling in the blanks to come.  As always, she is a master of ritualistic detail, which some will revel in and others probably skim through.<BR>  The frequent, lengthy, and important delineation of bloodlines can get a bit overwhelming;  the opening chapter is especially taxing in this regard  but if you can fight your way through that discussion you'll do fine the rest of the way.<BR>  Mostly one gets the sense that this book is in fact more necessary prequel than a full-fledged Deryni novel.  The sweep of  years and characters has cleared the historical table so to speak and managed to put the reader at the point where Alyce, Morgan, Duncan, Brion, etc. will be able to take more full stage in the next book while setting the trendlines in place for the actions we know as fans are to come.  In that regard, King's Service does its job and if it isn't a top tier Deryni novel, it has ambitions for being more than just serviceable exposition, ambitions that it mostly achieves.  One of the ways it goes  beyond simple exposition is the way she drops references to seemingly important people and groups and magic systems that are not at all familiar and that will clearly be explained in the next book.  So rather than just give the reader comforting background information, she offers up tasty hints of things to come leaving the reader wanting more information.  Recommended with a strong sense that book two will be much better and in that top level.	2004-01-08
US	53074803	R3BQH74YUXJNRZ	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	3	6	8	N	N	goes down easy, not very filling--amusing but thin	I would guess that how one reacts to this book would depend on one's expectations for it.  I don't know why, but I came to the book expecting a lot more than I got--a more full reading feast rather a few quick-to-down appetizers (a small number tasty, most just familiar, and some downright bland).  For that reason,  I was pretty disappointed. I suppose had I known she was a columnist I might have adjusted my expectations. <BR>  If you like breezy books with short self-contained chapters and you like reading about reading (as somewhat opposed to reading about books), then you'd probably enjoy this book.  Her observations about readers and reading are solidly accurate, but I wouldn't call them particularly insightful or original.  All readers already know of the various aspects she brings up, such as the fear inherent in recommending a book to a close friend or that point in your reading life when you finally realize you don't have to actually finish every book you start (non-readers might consider it the same as that point when you realize you can leave a half-full pitcher of  beer on a table and simply leave), and many readers have perhaps read about these same things in more eloquent and full form.  But for those that haven't, her points, if not deep or new or memorable, are presented amusingly and amiably enough and just about any reader will certainly nod his or her head in recognition many times.  I personally prefer more in-depth, thoughtful discussions such as An Open Book, The Child that Books Built, Great Books and the like,  books that are more reflective than observational.<BR>  The tone of the book is light-hearted throughout and as mentioned, generally amusing.  Stylistically, it reads pretty plainly and simply--I was never really moved or surprised by her language, somewhat of a fault I think in a book on the &quot;passion&quot; of reading.<BR>  As for her discussion of the books themselves, as I've already said, they are pretty minimalistic.  She takessome easy predictable shots (Tuesdays with Morrie or Bridges of Madison County) and some more courageous ones (Empire Falls).  I found myself nodding in agreement with some and shaking my head at others, though not with a lot of feeling since there wasn't a lot to react to.<BR>  Recommended as a first book about books, a light and quick stepping-stone into more substantive (and I don't mean academic) books about reading.  I'd also guess it holds up better read over a lengthy period of time, a chapter or two at a time, rather than in one or two extended readings where the thinness of its prose and discussion might eventually grate.	2004-01-06
US	53074803	R2E27VTAZWLLBC	078681800X	613428979	Slaves of the Mastery (Wind on Fire, Book 2)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	solid sequel but not as imaginitive as the original	Slaves of the Mastery picks up several  years after the events of the Windsinger (first book of the trilogy) and in plot and structure is similar to its predecessor, though not as original in thought or imagery.  Once again, the book examines a dystopic setting.  In this case it is The Mastery, a city-state of slaves and masters, one of whose leaders has raided the Manth city and taken its inhabitants, including the main characters from book one, into slavery.  The book once again focuses on the Hath family (including this time Pinto, the baby in book one, who is accorded more of a place here) and a small circle of friends as they first are first taken, then herded into a forced march from Amaranth to The Mastery, then attempt to escape.  <BR>   Kestrel and Bowman, the two siblings and the main focus, are separated early on and as did the first book, this one soon evolves into a split structure, interweaving between Bowman and his family's march and Kestrel's attempts to follow them in the guise of a servant to a vain and powerful princess on her way to marry sight unseen the chosen son of the Mastery's leader.  Eventually, the two stories coincide in the climax of the book.<BR>   This is certainly a young adult novel, and the slim setting details, quick pace, and thin characterization are what one would expect.  The book, however, is much darker than usual for this age group in terms of tone and specific detail and can be jarringly so at times.  Nicholson certainly doesn't sugarcoat despair or tragedy here.<BR>    Being a YA novel, coming-of-age themes are readily apparent and Nicholson does a good job of showing the development of Bowman, Kestrel, their friend Mumpo, and Kestrel's princess.  If their development is predictable or obvious, it is probably more a nature of the genre than the writing, though YA doesn't preclude a more subtle touch.  Other characters are sketchy and somewhat two-dimensional.  This unfortunately includes the mother and father, who playa major role.  The mother especially is not only not fully fleshed out but is actually pretty annoying as a character.<BR>   The plot is not as episodic as the first one, which allows for a tighter focus and more growth in side characters as they are given more pages to develop.  One of the strengths of the first book's episodic nature, however, was that it gave Nicholson full reign to indulge his imagination and while he didn't hit a home run for each adventure, he came up with enough startlingly imaginative events that it kept the book fresh and exciting.  This book isn't as imaginative and therefore also not as interesting or compelling.  <BR>  The lessons of the first book were pretty simple but here Nicholson moves into more thoughtful, more abstract, more open-ended worlds.  If the characterization is perhaps overly simple for the audience, he certainly does not condescend when it comes to the larger issues of the book, which give pause for thought to any adult let alone a young teen.<BR>  Once again, the book closes with a sense that there is more to come and if this one isn't as strong as the first, it holds interest enough to make the reader hope for better in the third and keep on with the series.	2004-01-06
US	53074803	R1SEI5LJ1E8PID	0374166447	82302003	The Great Fire: A Novel	Books	2	15	17	N	N	hard to care much for the characters and their fates	It is rare that I have a hard time getting past the basic premise of a novel.  I read a lot of fantasy, so suspension of disbelief is never a problem.  The Lovely Bones is one of my recent favorites, so I can accept a dead narrator.  I didn't care for but finished American Pyscho, so my main characters don't have to be particularly likable so long as they're interesting.  But I have to say up front that I just could never get around the fact that the center of passion in this  book lay in a burgeoning relationship between the thirty-some old main character Aldred Leith and a seventeen-year-old girl, one who has been helpmate for years to her dying brother and so has never really had a chance to experience the social world.   It just never went down easily for me and so colored my reactions to the novel (though there are other reasons as well for the low ranking).    <BR>  Rather than feel sympathy for the obstacles thrown up to the relationship, I felt myself becoming more and more disturbed by this man's desire for the young girl, the feeling compounded when Hazzard adds a &quot;competitor&quot; for the girl's affections--an American soldier who seems to see little odd or unseemly about their rivalry.  The same, to me, mystifying lack of concern plays out among all of the main character's, none of whom seem to have harbored a single moment's worth of misgiving over whether this pursuit was in the girl's best interest and many of whom in fact do their best to help Leith.  <BR>  The only characters who are given any space at all to criticize his desire are the girl's parents, who are first off  mere caricatures of the &quot;new type&quot; of ruling power (materialistic, ambitious, anti-intellectual, non-cultured) and who secondly never get to directly voice the (seemingly) reasonable objections they might have about their under-18 daughter going off with a man twice her age whom she has only known a short while and with whom they themselves have had almost no contact.  Instead, we are given their reactions through Leith's not particularly objective assumptions and imaginings about their response.<BR>  Beyond my problems with this singular plot point, there were other reasons I did not take much of a shine to the book.  The characterization I thought was wide-ranging in the quality of its portrayals, running the spectrum from some beautifully brief yet fully revealing moments with regard to some of the most minor characters to the aforementioned gross caricaturization of the girl's parents.  The girl herself, along with her brother, I never found all that believable or all that tangible.  Their speech and behaviors never once felt like a true depiction of even unusually intelligent or sensitive teens in the mid-1940's.  While the portrayal of the main character was strong, the secondary focus, Peter Exley, paled in comparison, as did his general storyline.  As for many of the other characters, they seem stilted in their speech and, like the siblings,  not very human.  The stilted dialogue, along with the romance, the distance, the sense of hierarchy that permeates a  lot of the novel all made it seem that these were people moving through a world of the 1800's rather than a century later.<BR>   One of the major questions of the novel is how do people who have come through the Great Fire of the war put their lives back together.  The characters themselves struggle with this as well as with the seeming way their experiences  have forced them into solo flight paths.  Hazzard does an excellent job of expressing the distance these characters feel from the people in their lives as well as from their former and even current selves, but the price paid is that the reader is also distanced from these characters.  To make me feel for their rejuvenation attempts, I needed more than the stock cold father who dies before the relationship with the son is examined or shored up, the introduction of sudden physical tragedy, or a romance that was just off-putting.  <BR>  The settings are perfect matches for the larger themes, post-war Japan and Hong Kong, but they are so minimally sketched except for the opening section on Leith's temporary home (a truly beautiful apt setting and description), that one often feels the book could be taking place almost anywhere.  In fact, when the setting does intrude itself forcefully into the book, it feels forced and somewhat unearned.  <BR>  Stylistically, there are certainly gorgeous sentences peppered throughout much of the book, but not to any strong effect other than to sometimes marvel at the language itself rather than at what it evokes.  And there were a distracting number of times where I had the sense that the author was all too present in the &quot;writerly&quot; mode of coming up with that brilliantly strange simile or metaphor that sounds great but is just too fuzzy to mean much or that pulls the reader out while they puzzle over just what is meant. <BR>   Is there anything to like in the novel?  Well, as mentioned, some of the writing is certainly to be admired for its beauty.  There are several minor characters who are lovingly detailed (though so minor as to be too brief to be of much worth in the whole).  The shift from war as the Great Fire to love is wonderful and her sections on love make for great excerpts, as do a few other set scenes involving some of those minor characters described above.  But these moments of pure writing talent in the end only emphasize the overall weakness of the book.	2004-01-04
US	53074803	R2IZXXDWOAQN2	0345461983	38213846	Dragon's Kin	Books	3	94	105	N	N	solid but uninspired, one of the weaker Pern books	It is appropriate that Dragon's Kin is set in a mining camp as ever since the earlier &quot;Long Interval&quot; series of Pern novels she has been &quot;mining&quot; the world of Pern for more ideas and stories.  The quality of these later stories is seldom as strong as the earlier ones (referring to Dragonflight, Dragonquest, The White Dragon, and the Harper Hall trilogy), running a spectrum from almost as good (All the Weyrs) to merely adequate (dragonsdawn, renegades).  Dragon's Kin falls somewhere in the middle, not nearly as good as her great works, not nearly as bad as the worst.  If you haven't read any Pern, this book is somewhat independent, but does assume a basic knowledge of how the world works and therefore isn't a good starting place.  Even more importantly, however, you should start with the strongest examples not the weakest, so begin with DragonFlight and move on through there before coming to Dragon's Kin. <BR>   By this point in the series, McCaffery is down to picking out minor parts of the Pern world that have yet to be explored--she already did the explanatory prequels, she covered fire lizards and dolphins, she's covered harpers and traders and riders.  She isn't left with much and so we get Kin, focusing on watchwhers and miners.<BR>   This is set between the time of the original series and the prequel books.  The disadvantage is that we don't get to see those characters most of us fell so in love with.  The advantage is that she (I keep saying she but of course her son is co-author) doesn't have her hands tied as she did in the prequels with having to explain specific rituals, names, etc, a reason those prequel books tend to fall in the lower ranks of quality.<BR>   In general, this is a solid book.  The characters are mostly interesting enough, though not particularly so and if they aren't all that vividly constructed, they also manage to move beyond being simply cardboard characters.  The plot is somewhat predictable--it's hard to imaginea book centered on a mining camp that won't have at its climax a cave-in scene, though perhaps it didn't need to be so obviously telegraphed as it is here.  Characters pretty much act as we would expect them to from our very first meeting of them (with perhaps one or two exceptions) and events pretty much fall into the order we expect.  None of the characters have the force of a L'essa or a Robinton or a Piemur (even in comparison to their first introduction as characters as opposed to after reading several books about them), nor do any of the inter-relationships have the same emotional strength or passion as is so evident among those earlier characters (or even those earlier characters and their dragons).  Granted, this is a high standard, but it is after all one which McCaffery set herself.  But if Kin doesn't come close to meeting that standard, it doesn't fall completely on its face either.<BR>  That is, except for one curiously grating plot point involving watchwhers going between and which seems predicated on several characters having completely forgotten events from earlier in the book.  This was a pretty major flaw to have found itself into the book, and in a stronger work would have had probably more of an impact for the worse, but here is just sort of annoying.<BR>   In language and complexity, the book seems geared at a somewhat younger age, though I'm not quite sure why.  Dragonsong etc. were also somewhat YA, but I don't recall them being so simple in their language and plotting, though perhaps I'm not remembering correctly.  As with those three Harper hall books, there is room here for a continuation with several of these characters, who were  likable enough and just interesting enough that I'd pick up another book involving them, though not with the avidness with which I awaited books like The White Dragon or All the Weyrs.  <BR>  In the end, a serviceable book, an amiable one, but not a compelling one and not an essential one.	2004-01-04
US	53074803	RQ6LN6PXHBTVT	0060557540	5482241	The Known World	Books	4	18	20	N	N	beautiful at times but strangely removed	The Known World has at its center the wonderfully complex  question of who is master and who is slave among the various range of characters that make up this intricate novel--free blacks who own slaves, free blacks who do not, black slaves, poor whites, rich slave-owning whites, Native American slave &quot;patrollers&quot;, light-skinned blacks who can pass for white, husband or wife, etc.  The complexity of the situation is matched by the complexity of the presentation, as the novel moves freely and often seamlessly between time and place.  This is not a book to read, therefore, while you &quot;multi-task&quot; or as you nod off to sleep--it requires the reader's full attention.  The story will frequently spin away from the main narrative, sometimes for a few lines, sometimes for several pages, sometimes even longer in the one section I thought overly digressive.  While I thought at times the author switched time and place too often too closely, for the most part this was a highly effective and haunting structure.   <BR>   This is a beautifully written book, with carefully crafted sentences and characters revealed as often through slight, small acts as through more lengthy poetic descriptions.  At times, as with the digressions, the reader might wish for less full language, but such times quickly pass.<BR>  The characters themselves are vividly portrayed and fully so--there are no easy  or cheaply shallow characterizations.  Good and  bad are not, forgive the construction, as clearly black and white as one might have seen in a less skillful, less ambitious work.  Sympathies can often shift for the reader, which some may find disconcerting but which I found more true to life and much more interesting.<BR>   My one complaint about the novel is that is is strangely, for its subject matter and its events, lacking in emotive impact.  Part of it is probably that the fluid back-and-forth structure, together with the multitude of characters and settings, combine to frequently remove the reader from a real sense of intimacy with the characters, despite the poignant situations they encounter.  And the closing few pages, while horribly tragic, have been telegraphed in tone if not in deed for so long that they are somewhat anti-climatic in terms of their emotional impact on the reader.  This may be a single flaw, but it is a major one and perhaps even one that will cause some readers to not bother past the first third of the book.  I went back and forth myself as to whether the short-term impact of the  many flash-forwards or backwards (which was often lingeringly sad) was worth sacrificing a greater, more powerful sense of emotional connection.  In the end I decided yes, though just, perhaps mostly because it's so refreshing to come across something different.  The imposed sense of distance can make the book seem slow going, but anyone who reads it will find it ultimately if somewhat palely rewarding.	2003-12-30
US	53074803	RTCXZ8368TQJZ	078681859X	506234393	The Amulet of Samarkand, Book 1 (Bartimaeus )	Books	5	53	56	N	Y	clever, original, witty--highly recommended	As I've said in previous reviews, if you're going to set your book in England and have as a main character a young boy learning the art of wizardry, you've guaranteed yourself a comparison to Harry Potter.  With The Amulet of Samarkand, Jonathan Stroud can proudly say, \\"bring him on--wands at 15 paces!\\".<BR>  With so much pallid fantasy out there, Amulet is a breath of fresh air, told in a witty, original voice within a well-constructed plot and structure focused on two complex characters.  Amulet is set in an alternate England ruled by magicians whose powers come from their ability to conjure demons.  The society is beset within (by a resistance movement of \\"commoners\\" as well as by the murderous in-fighting among the ruling class magicians) and without (at war with Prague).  Nathaniel is a young magician's apprentice who, after being publicly humiliated, seeks revenge via the demon Bartimaeus and a powerful talisman--the book's namepiece.  By the time the book closes, it will involve murder and mayhem, betrayal, the attempted overthrow of the government, ancient (and I mean ancient) grievances, several tense chase scenes, various escape attempts, political commentary, the searing intensity of unassuagable guilt, and more.<BR>  Despite all that is crammed in here, the plot moves along briskly for the most part (this despite its complexity and the use of footnotes).  Nathaniel is a complex character, giving us easily as many reasons to dislike him as to sympathize with him.  He is no paragon of heroism or innocence.  The other and much more likable main character (or perhaps more accurately the true main character) is the demon Nathaniel summons and the trilogy's title character.  Unlike Nathaniel, whose section is told in 3rd person, Bartimaeus gets to tell his section of the  book himself, lending us a more intimate view and thus allowing us to empathize more directly with him.  Even better, his is a wry, cynical voice,  bitingly funny.  He also has the advantageof centuries of experience to call upon for more material with which to sharpen his wit.  His sections are simply a pleasure to read.  He too is more complex than is typical in these works.  For instance, a scene where he somewhat blithely is willing to kill three young teens with little remorse reminds us he is no tame funny pet for either Nathaniel or the reader.<BR>   While Nathaniel's main antagonist, an evil wizard whose plots really aren't that out of character for magicians in general it turns out, is perhaps one of the weaker characters--a bit bland in both villainy and dialogue, the various demon antagonists of Bartimaeus are all wonderful creations, especially his two long-running nemeses whom he comes across several times.<BR>  The structure moves back and forth skillfully between Bartimaeus's first person narration and the third-person description of what is happening with Nathaniel, pulling away from one to the other at just the right moments to create the greatest suspense.  It is all deftly handled with no confusion whatsoever.<BR>  The story itself is well-paced and complex enough to keep the reader guessing.  It ends independently but with enough loose ends to point to an obvious sequel, which I for one eagerly await.  Very highly recommended.	2003-12-16
US	53074803	RE2GWYFF1UWL5	0385500696	545684646	The Fortress of Solitude: A Novel	Books	3	82	94	N	N	strong moments overshadowed by weaker ones and pace	There are some beautiful moments in the Fortress of Solitude--moments of crystalline description, of poetic evocation of time and place, moments of heartbreaking human interaction.  But for me, these moments just didn't hold together long enough or happen often enough.<BR>  The novel follows Dylan Ebdus, known as &quot;whiteboy&quot; to those around him on Dean Street due to the rarity of his skin color, as he grows up and out of the Brooklyn neighborhood.  While we see Dylan from five through middle-age, most of the book focuses on his young teen years and especially his friendship with Mingus Rude, a friendship which goes on and off through the years.  Both boys are motherless.  Dylan's liberal-minded mother has left him to his painter father who has given up a promising artist career to work obsessively on an abstract painting on film while Mingus lives with his father, Barret Junior--a once-famous singer who spirals into drugs and obscurity. Both fathers threaten to take their children down with them, both father try to rise out of their depths.<BR>  Other main characters include another young white boy even further down the junior and high school hierarchy than Dylan and a street tough who is a running physical and psychological threat to Dylan over the years.<BR>   Many have lauded the evocation of 1970's Brooklyn--the poetic recreation of that world of stickball and skully and comic books and stoopball and gentrification.  And there is, as mentioned, some truly amazing writing put to that purpose.  But for all the loving detail, it never felt intimate enough to evoke much feeling to me.   Some of the pop references felt like set pieces or throw-away time markers, some sections were overly long and others not long enough, some had powerful emotive effects (the section of skully for instance) and others seemed recitation of cold descriptive facts.<BR>    Part of the problem was that the characters never truly felt fully-formed or real to me, especially Mingus,so I cared even less about the setting.  A lot of time is spent on early Dylan to good effect  but he starts to pale as a character as the book goes on and is not particularly likable or more importantly interesting as an adult.  Mingus is too often too removed (both literally and figuratively) and therefore too many of the character &quot;tags&quot; associated with him--graffiti, drug use, drug dealing--have the feel of cliche rather than character development.  The other white boy, Arthur,  I found too often simply unbelievable in his speech, which was too bad since it was a distraction from his actions, which could have had much more of an emotional impact had I accepted him as a person.  <BR>  The magical-realism part involving a ring which can supposedly make the wearer fly or invisible among other powers dependent upon its user, feels a bit forced and uneven; it intervenes clumsily at times, more effectively at others.   The same is true of the comic book motif which moves from painfully belabored to beautifully evocative of desire and loneliness and despair and power.<BR>  Overall, the book just didn't hold together for me.  It was too episodic in nature without adding up to a whole greater than its parts and the characters were just not fully formed enough for me to care despite the plot's weaknesses and uneven pace.  The best section for me was the middle, past the first 100 pages or so.  I was tempted several times in those first 100 to put it down, and even more so once Dylan moved into his older teens and on to college then adulthood, but the potential and the occasional gem of a sentence or paragraph or several pages would keep me going through the next rough patch, which is why I gave it a three.  Ultimately though, its strengths were overshadowed by its weaknesses and I finished unsure if I would have been better off giving into the temptation to quit earlier.	2003-12-16
US	53074803	R2HCDH82CLHTW1	0786814179	393951124	The Wind Singer (The Wind on Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	somewhat uneven but many strong sections	The Wind Singer is a young adult novel and so comes with all the pluses and minuses of that genre.  The pace is quick with little room or time for digression or a lot of descriptive detail.  The upside is that the book never once bogs down and keeps pulling the reader along.  The downside, though how much of a downside will mostly depend on age and expectations, is that characterization suffers a bit and there are a few places where it would have been nice to have gotten a more full picture (both visually and in terms of plot context/background).<br />  The story is a typical young adult dystopia but with more of a fantasy cast rather than a sci-fi one as is often the case.  The city of Amaranth is the dystopia in question.  Within its walls the people are strictly divided into castes (denoted by clothing color as well as assigned houses)  based on their yearly performances on the \\"high examination\\".  Individual scores affect family scores (and thus where you live, what your job will be, status, etc.) and expectations are that the people will work hard and strive to be \\"better today than yesterday. Better tomorrow than today\\" as empirically and publicly noted by their test scores.<br />  In this world the Hath family sticks out like a sore thumb, as is clearly, warmly, and comically portrayed in the opening scene--the two-year-old's first testing day.  It gives nothing to say she does not \\"pass\\", and the same is true of the family as a whole.  None of them seem to care much for the system and do nothing to succeed in it.  This is true of the mother, father, and Bowman the young son who is a well-developed empath with some telepathic power as well.  His young sister, Kestrel, is equally unconcerned about her rating but is, unlike the rest of the family, openly rebellious.<br />  It is a single act of brazen defiance on her part that kicks the main part of the story off, setting in motion a chain of events which lead her, Bowman, and a \\"tag-a-long\\" loner (Mumpo) to undertake a quest to return the voice of the wind-singer to Amaranth and thus end its enslavement to this rigid system.  While the kids are on their quest, the mother and father, separately punished for their children's misdoings and for their willingness to defend their children, begin themselves to defy the Amaranth society.<br />  While the dystopic genre has been frequently mined, the use of actual tests I thought to be pretty original.  And while an adult may find the \\"message\\" a bit obvious, it isn't too heavily played for the intended age group.  The quest is also filled with some highly original and imaginative encounters, especially the mud-people who live below the city and the rolling towns stuck in a perpetual war without casualties.  In fact, one of the weaknesses of the book is that the early stages of the quest seem more vivid and interesting than the latter stages, where the children begin to actually fight the book's \\"big evil\\" (the morah) and its armies.  The exception to this is a battle scene between the Morah's army and the eagles/wolves.  Though this is one of the better described and more moving scenes in the book, it is also an example where the author probably could have jumped in even more fully.<br />  The quest story is interwoven with the parents' story back home and while not as dramatic, they add a larger context to the story as well as create some tension  by pulling the reader away from the kids.  The father's story seems more thought out, however, with the mother's suffering somewhat in comparison.<br />The ending itself is a bit perfunctory though not particularly unsatisfying.  The story as a whole had, as I've said, some wonderfully imaginative sections, its strengths well outweighing its weaknesses (especially considering the age group) and most readers will be quite eager to continue the story.take a quest to return the voice of the wind-singer to Amaranth and thus end its enslavement to this rigid system.  While the kids are on their quest, the mother and father, separately punished for their children's misdoings and for their willingness to defend their children, begin themselves to defy the Amaranth society.<BR>  While the dystopic genre has been frequently mined, the use of actual tests I thought to be pretty original.  And while an adult may find the \\"message\\" a bit obvious, it isn't too heavily played for the intended age group.  The quest is also filled with some highly original and imaginative encounters, especially the mud-people who live below the city and the rolling towns stuck in a perpetual war without casualties.  In fact, one of the weaknesses of the book is that the early stages of the quest seem more vivid and interesting than the latter stages, where the children begin to actually fight the book's \\"big evil\\" (the morah) and its armies.  The exception to this is a battle scene between the Morah's army and the eagles/wolves.  Though this is one of the better described and more moving scenes in the book, it is also an example where the author probably could have jumped in even more fully.<BR>  The quest story is interwoven with the parents' story back home and while not as dramatic, they add a larger context to the story as well as create some tension  by pulling the reader away from the kids.  The father's story seems more thought out, however, with the mother's suffering somewhat in comparison.<BR>The ending itself is a bit perfunctory though not particularly unsatisfying.  The story as a whole had, as I've said, some wonderfully imaginative sections, its strengths well outweighing its weaknesses (especially considering the age group) and most readers will be quite eager to continue the story.	2003-12-11
US	53074803	R3QOJ284EX8N51	037570342X	564250926	Family Matters	Books	4	2	4	N	N	warm with good voice and characters, lags a bit in pace	Set in Bombay during the '90's, Family Matters focuses on the travails of a single family as they try to cope with caring for a degenerating father, though as is typical for a Mistry novel, things are never quite that simple.  Nariman Vakeel, 79, who suffers from the accelerating onset of Parkinson's disease, trips one night and breaks his ankle.  His step-children, Coomy and Jal, at first try to care for him as they have for many years, but eventually ship him over to his blood-daughter's much smaller and more cramped home. Roxana and her two sons take him in gladly, but the monetary pressure brought on by his addition to the household begins to take its toll on her husband Yezad and eventually the entire family.  Meanwhile, Coomy and Jal have varying degress of guilt over their actions and come into some conflict with each other.  Underlying all of this is a family history involving Nariman, his first love, and his eventual wife (mother of all three children) that has caused much pain and anger among the children and especially between Coomy and Nariman, most of which is told through flashbacks interspersed throughout the novel via Nariman's recollections.  Overlapping the family story is the story of Bombay itself, its seemingly eternally pervasive corruption, the dangers of its radicalism, and the depth and width of its people's characters.<BR>   The strengths of the novel lie in its characters and its voice.  The family members from oldest to youngest are fully fleshed out in wonderful precise detail and a fullness of humanity that is a pleasure to read.  The same is true of of several side characters as well, especially Yezad's two companions--his friend the letter writer and his boss at the sporting goods store.  Except for near the end (more on that later), you buy completely into the idea that these are living, breathing people.  They are drawn in all complexity, with all the normal shadings of real people--weaknesses and strengths warring with one anotheron a daily or even hourly basis.<BR>  The narrative voice is also a pleasure.  Mistry gives us a range of character voices--the bombastic and poetic boss, the more resignedly poetic letter writer, the pragmatic and frustrated Yezad, the sometimes wandering Nariman.  They are not single-note characters, however.  Yezad too has his poetic moments, his emotional moments, while Nariman can move from sharply cantankerous to warmly, fuzzily recollective.  Mistry is equally adept at male and female, young and old.  And the narration itself has a softly poetic feel to it, never drawing attention to itself but still inviting the reader in, giving the book an intimate, cozy feel to it.<BR>  Pacing is sometimes a problem.  I thought the book lagged in a few places and probably could have been shortened somewhat, especially some of Nariman's flashbacks.  My biggest problem is with the ending of the novel. Without giving away details, some of it seemed a bit perfunctory and especially regarding one character somewhat unbelievable, more of a plot contrivance than a natural outgrowth of events.  That plus some of the pacing issues knocked it down a notch for me and made it not quite as strong as his earlier novel, A Fine Balance, which is one of the best  books I've read in the past year.<BR>  Those problems aside, Family Matters is a  moving, intimate look at family, both immediate and extended.  There are some simply beautiful moments in this book, along with some quietly hearthbreaking ones, ones a reader will savor while reading and which will stay with him or her afterward.  It might be set in a place foreign to most of us,  but at its heart, it will feel just like to home to many.  Well-recommended with a stronger recommendation to read A Fine Balance before or after (depending on if you'd rather be somewhat disappointed or surprised)	2003-12-10
US	53074803	R2YYYNRY58CDBT	1556525060	11264976	Stan Lee and the Rise and Fall of the American Comic Book	Books	4	16	19	N	N	quick, concise, informative, objective, and entertaining	As the review's title says, this is a quick and effectively concise look at Stan Lee and Marvel comics.  The book moves quickly through Stan's early biography, slows down through the years leading up to Marvel, then takes it time with a detailed look at his work in the Marvel Universe.  One of the strengths of the book is that it doesn't do all of this in a vacuum; it also takes some space to fill in some of the context.  It does a good job with some backhistory of comics in general, with DC comics, and with the social/legislative response to comic books during the time they were regarded as a &quot;threat to our youth&quot;.  The authors fill in the context skillfully and quickly, giving you enough information for a more full picture of what was happening and why at Marvel but without bogging the main story down in digressions.<BR>  The main story is the growth and decline and regrowth of Marvel as seen through the lens of Stan Lee's career  and if not covered in exhaustive detail, it certainly is covered in enough for all but the most obsessive of fans I would guess.  While Lee is the obvious focus, the authors also spend, as they should, quite a lot of space on the two main artists of Marvel's glory years--Kirby and Ditko, placing their work in a wider context than just their time at Marvel.  And while clearly fans of all three men, the authors, rather than act as fawning bio artists, reveal their flaws (both professional and personal) as well as their qualities, as well as going into some of the more ugly aspects of their working (or not working as the case may be) relationships.<BR>  The &quot;origin&quot; stories of many of the classic comics are here, with some fair warning to the reader that the origins are more mysterious than previous tellings would relate.  And the authors do a good job of conveying the actual creating/writing/publishing process, giving the reader a true feel for the work on a personal level rather than in dry, encyclopedic terms.  One gets a true feel for the hectic nature of the work, the rewards and the frustrations.  <BR> I have only a few complaints.  In discussing such a visual craft, there are far too few actual visuals in the  book.  Especially in discussing the work of Kirby and Ditko--the vivid descriptions of their own drawing as well as the comparisons to other contemporary or earlier artists--the text cries out for some visual support.  And the book is a bit skimpy on more recent history with regard to Marvel and the movies, though that could be defended on the grounds that as the book states, Stan Lee had become a peripheal figure by then and so the shift into film is somewhat off the book's focus.  And finally, as a long-time fan of comics, I could have used more on the stories themselves though obviously the authors were aiming at conciseness here and to be honest, I probably would have said the same thing had they another 50 or more pages on the stories.<BR>  Overall it's a quick, well-researched book that conveys the necesary facts but even better the interesting stories and the even more interesting personalities involved.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-07
US	53074803	R1WSRW648UULMC	0439474299	110882952	Children of the Red King #1: Midnight for Charlie Bone	Books	3	20	21	N	N	solidly interesting but not particularly compelling	Any book nowadays that has its main character be a young  boy who suddenly discovers he has magical talent is, fair or not, going to be compared to the Harry Potter series.  Add in a school for geniuses and those \\"endowed\\" with magical talents, a small cadre of mixed (talented and not-talented) friends to aid the main character, suspicious professors, and a missing presumed dead father and you're almost asking for it.  It might not be right, but at least so many people have read Harry Potter that it gives us all a solid baseline standard.  So let's get to the inevitable, fair or not--how does Charlie Bone stack up against Harry Potter?  The answer has to be not very well, mostly due to the writing rather than the storyline itself--it simply lack the richness of detail, of character, of atmosphere that permeated the Potter books.    The idea of the endowed is interesting enough, and one of the nice touches of originality are some of the talents themselves--which are a bit odd and sometimes even seemingly useless or trivial.  Charlie's talent, for instance, is to hear voices from the photographs he looks at; another character can make lights explode.  These are more quirky than one might expect, and while some others are more run-of-the-mill (the ability to call the winds or to hypnotize), the quirkiness and \\"smallness\\" of some of these is what lends some charm to the book and its larger premise.  It's nice to see characters have to work around limitations rather than being able to simply research a specific spell or potion to solve almost any problem.    The background story also adds some interest beyond the ordinary.  It seems the endowed are the descendants of the \\"Red King\\", who disappeared almost a millenium ago.  His children have been at war over the generations, with the added complexity that sometimes the \\"bad\\" children gave birth to some \\"good\\" ones and vice versa.  It's a bit sketchy, but laid out in sufficient detail for this book; clearly there will be more information to come in the sequels.  Charlie's family also has potential.  A mix of talented and untalented and seemingly a mix too of the opposing sides, the conflict lying under the surface and ocassionally rising to the top keeps a nice bit of confused tension around the reader.  The aunts and grandmother have a little of Roald Dahl in them, the major problem (here and in the book as a whole) is that they are not developed enough.  His uncle, the one talented member of his family on his side, is better developed but still not fully so.  The mother, a character that could have added some tonal depth, is almost a complete throwaway character who might not even exist for her place here.  And except for his best friend, Charlie's school friends also suffer from a lack of depth or personality.   As mentioned, lack of development is what keeps this an average book rather than allowing it to blossom into a good book.  One almost senses that in writing for young adults, the author decided to strip out the \\"dull\\" stuff, which of course just bleeds the work of most of its interest.  The setting are mostly perfunctory--there's no real sense of place or tone or atmosphere anywhere in the book, whether it be Charlie's home or the school or even the spooky old castle ruins which just cry out for some detailed description.  The characters too suffer from some pallidness, including Charlie.  We don't see enough of the talents in use nor do we have any sense at all of their place in the larger society or what the \\"good\\" and \\"bad\\" sides of the Red King Children's war really means. The pace drags a bit here and there and the whole book probably could have done with some cutting of plotline and replacing of some predictable or repetitive story actions with some fuller characterization or description.    In the end, this is a solid book that mostly keeps the reader's attention but doesn't really compel them to keep reading, either due to the gripping storyline or the interestingcharacters.  There is clearly some potential here, however, and I'd give the author's second book a try to see if she makes good on that promise with some fuller detail and better characterization.  Though I probaby would only give her a few chapters into that second book before making my decision.  This isn't a bad story, but it isn't quite yet a good one.  (added note:  Having just finished book 2--review is on Amazon--I sadly have to say that the first book's problems continue in the sequel and if anything get worse.  So I'd recommend skipping the series altogether and trying one of the much better fantasies out there for young adults, such as The Water Mirror, Gregor the Overlander, Diane Duane's Wizard series, etc.)	2003-12-03
US	53074803	R1ZCUERHCKITI0	0679880720	912232753	Thomas the Tank Engine's Big Lift-And-look Book (Thomas & Friends)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	flaps, flaps, and more flaps!	Pages with only one flap on them?  Why waste the space?  This book has flaps upon flaps upon flaps, so many that sometimes my two-year-old will reach for another one I've missed as I'm starting to turn the page. The last page alone is several minutes worth of flap-flipping fun.  Even if your child isn't a huge Thomas fan, this is a fun book with lots of hidden things to find on each page.  What's underneath will help teach colors and numbers and letters.  And if they like Thomas, than they'll love this book.  There's a logical progression from page to page if no actual story, but the fun in this one isn't reading out loud, it's finding flaps, lifting flaps, trying to remember what's under flaps.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-02
US	53074803	R10SKNPKNR8SH7	0060207051	810682055	Goodnight Moon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Now even our 2nd copy is falling apart	Our first copy fell into tatters.  Our second copy is on its way out.  Our third copy waits for us at Grandma and Grandpa's to ensure we never make the horrible mistake of forgetting our copy at home.  What more need be said?  We have been reading this book to our 26 month old almost since birth.  He's gone through chewing on it to pointing to it to now requesting it by name before going to bed.  It's the perfect length for a good night book for little kids.  There are just the right number of words per page so the pages turn quickly. The cadence and repetition is soothing, the colors pleasing.  And for more stimulating play, you can always ask them to spot the mouse in each panel (though be forewarned, we once had to play find the mouse a dozen times in a row).  There's no \\"message\\" or \\"lesson\\" and no, \\"years of scientific research into reading habits and patterns\\" did not go into this book--it's just a lovely quiet simple book that children love to listen to.	2003-12-02
US	53074803	R2WB7Y1Q1RZ0BZ	061823649X	865354621	Spoken Here: Travels Among Threatened Languages	Books	3	12	12	N	N	uneven with some strong sections that make worth reading	From my viewpoint, a book of this sort is almost bound to end with a somewhat middling review.  First, it is comprised of several sections, which although clearly tied together by the same issue are really wholly independent of one another.  As is often the case in these sort of things, some sections stand out as particularly strong, some as merely average, and others as a bit weak.  Secondly, the book is clearly not focused so much on the linguistics, yet cannot cover the topic without resorting to some linguistics.  It is not solely a travel book, yet because the author does in fact journey to these dying languages it is partly a travelogue.  Partly this, partly that--it is difficult for a book to overcome that sort of mongrel construction.<BR>So yes, this book has its weak moments, its points where you wish he either delved more into the languages themselves or more into the settings/societies.  But if Abley hasn't hit a homerun here, the book is more often successful than not and it does have some standout moments.<BR>  Language death is often discussed in abstract terms and one of the strengths of this book is that the author shows us the impact on actual living, speaking (for now) people.  This has the effect of making the loss of such languages as Provencal or the aboriginal languages of Australia be felt more sharply by the reader.  The sadness, the resigned weariness of these last few speakers of a dying language is hauntingly conveyed in their conversations with the author, lending the book an elegaic tone throughout much of its pages. Few of these stories will have happy endings and Abley's interviewees face that fact bluntly, as does the reader.  But if most of these languages are past the point of no return, Abley also does a good job of showing some of the success stories, though without shying away from the tenuousness of the successes.  The sections on &quot;revived&quot; languages balance the book's tone somewhat, and even the in not-so-optimistic sections, Abley does a good job of lightening the tone now and then.  <BR>  The same good sense of balance is shown through Abley's care in not &quot;deifying&quot; those struggling to preserve the dying languages.  It would have been easy to paint them as saintly underdogs automatically gaining the readers' admiration and sympathies, but Abley is unafraid to point out the negatives (in-fighting among language advocates,  hints of xenophobia, use of violence, strangely poor teaching techniques) as well as obviously, the more positive aspects of fighting to retain a language's existence and use.<BR>  As mentioned, there are some weaknesses.  Some sections seem a bit long.  Some don't have the power or intimacy of the stronger ones.  And often one wishes for more examples, or more examination of the languages themselves, more discussion of the difficulty of translation or the way language conveys a thought process or a perspective.  All of this is touched upon in each section, it's just some are covered more fully than others.  A more frequent aid to pronunciation would have been helpful as well; I at least found it frustrating to be reading about words and phrases I had no idea how to say.  As I said, overall the book though uneven succeeds more than it fails and stands as a good, more personal and emotional introduction to a topic which will one assumes will only come up more and more often as English continues to encroach as the dominating language. Recommended.	2003-12-02
US	53074803	R3EVQPRRYOW0VC	0439435366	8643683	Gregor The Overlander (Underland Chronicles)	Books	4	135	145	N	N	well-paced story that leaves you wanting more	In the sea of young adult fiction out there, Gregor the Overlander makes for one of the more pleasant anchorages.  The  book starts off quickly with Gregor and his two-year-old sister \\"Boots\\" falling through a gateway into the Underworld, a sprawling underground land populated by giant talking cockroaches, rats, bats, and spiders, along with several thousand pale humans descended from a 17th century \\"overlander\\" who led his small group into the Underworld then sealed the entrances.  This descendant left a string of prophecies, including one which seems to point directly to Gregor as the one who may or may not save the humans in their ongoing war with the rats (as is often the case with prophecies, this one is somewhat lacking in clarity).  Gregor has a more personal issue at stake; it turns out his father, who had disappeared a few years earlier, had also fallen through into the Underworld and has been held captive by the rats all this time as they seek to use his knowledge of science and engineering.  Luckily, Gregor's desire to save his father dovetails with the prophecy and soon a band of rescuers is formed and the journey begun.<BR>   Being a  young adult novel, the story moves along swiftly, without a lot of detailed description of either setting or society, but if the world is only sketched out, it is done so fully enough so that the reader never feels at a loss and is done so interestingly enough that the reader often wants to learn much more than is revealed.  <BR>The same holds true for many of the characters--Gregor, the young human princess and her cousin from the underworld, the grandfatherly diplomat who befriends and guides Gregor, even the bats who \\"bond\\" with their human riders.  Perhaps the most interesting characters are a rat whose loyalties are not quite clear and two cockroaches who join the rescue mission, the latter interesting despite their relative few words in comparison to the others.  Again, aimed as it is as somewhat younger readers, thecharacterization comes quickly and sometimes bluntly, but there are also some fine subtleties in here and some truly moving scenes whose emotional impact is as much due to the \\"humanity\\" of the characters Collins has created as it is to the situations she places them in.  I'd even go so far as to say my favorite characters, the ones I found most compelling in speech and personality,  were the non-human ones.  His sister Boots is a wecome source of comic relief throughout the work, lightening the tone at times, though also used as a prop to create more tension at others.<BR>  Some scenes could and probably should be more fully detailed, but while a valid criticism, one can also take it as a compliment to Collins' writing since it's good enough for the reader to want more, not less.  As it is, the book speeds along from Gregor's fall to his first contact with the various species of the underworld, to his growing acceptance of his responsibilities and a gradual flowering of inner qualities as the dangers of the journey unfold.  All  of which sounds quite positive, but it comes in fits and starts.  Collins isn't afraid to give Gregor some unlikable moments and also does not shy away from the darker aspects of her tale--while some people (and I use that term loosely) rise to the occasion, others sink.  And some of either kind do not survive.  It's a good ending, but  not necessarily a completely happy one.  It's that kind of complex shading that makes Gregor rise above much of its competition.  The ending also clearly points to a sequel and in this case, I can only say good.  There is a lot more for Collins to mine here both in terms of the Underland society and these particular characters.  I for one will look forward to seeing what happens to both.	2003-11-30
US	53074803	R2X47NAY0Q29AK	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	4	5	6	N	N	detailed, vivid, interestingly digressive	Mention Magellan and most will tell you he's that guy that sailed around the world.  There their knowledge ends, or such as it is, since as Bergreen reminds us in wonderful detail, it was some of Magellan's crew that actually sailed around the world while the majority of it, along with Magellan himself, actually only survived part of the trip.<BR> Packed with historical detail supplemented by first person accounts and side stories that some will find of equal or surpassing interest and others might find too digressive, Bergreen gives us a satisfyingly full look at the man and the journey.<BR> The focus for the first three-quarters of the book is of course on Magellan.  His early life history is quickly covered, enough to inform us of his abilities and motivations without bogging the reader down in unnecessary detail or too much psychohistory (\\"rejected by his father at age six, young Magellan turned to the sea to prove . . . \\").  The details start to come in Magellan's early attempts to convince his native Portugal to sponsor a journey to the Spice Islands and accumulate even more fully once he takes his leave for Spain and the planning for the trip  begins in earnest.<BR>  The trip itself is covered in sharp and vivid detail--the political in-fighting, the mutual antagonisms of class and country aboard ship, multiple mutiny attempts, successful and not-so-succesful contacts with natives, and of course the nautical travails themselves--deathly storms,a myriad of navigational obstacles and pursuing Portugese. Not to mention the fact that the entire trip was based on an idea that the world was much, much smaller than it in fact turned out to be. <BR>  Most of the trip is seen through the lens of Magellan, and while a clear fan of Magellan, Bergreen is also unafraid to criticize his many errors with regard to ship policy, to politics, to contact with the natives.  Magellan comes across as a complex all-too human figure rather than an icon or simple villain. Brilliant at times and amazingly stupid at others, he never fails to hold our attention. Other important figures in the crew are offered similar respect with regard to the fullness of their portrayals.<BR>  Beside the journey's details, the reader is treated to digressions into royal relationships, international maneuvering, the importance of spices to sixteenth century economies, the running battle for economic and nautical supremacy between Spain and Portugal, and maybe most fascinating of all, a brief history of the Chinese Treasure Fleet.  While some might think Bergreen goes into too much detail here, other might wish for more.  I personally fell somewhere in between, able to live with less on the royal personages and wanting  more on the spice trade itself (those who feel the same way could do worse than turn to Nathaniel's Nutmeg for more on the topic)as well as on the Treasure Fleet.<BR>  I thought at times Bergreen could have left the \\"European\\" perspective a bit more, giving us a more full glimpse at the journey from the other end of the spectrum.  I also could have done with more frequent use of maps throughout the book to have a more immediate and visual sense of Magellan's progress (or lack thereof).  While I felt the lack of both several times, these flaws were relatively minor and only detracted somewhat from the work as a whole.  Money, lust, greed, politics, mutiny, pride, betrayal, tragic accidents, man versus nature, battles, shipwrecks, castaways, man versus man, heroism and cowardice, man versus himself.  The book has it all, with the added luxury of being true.  Well-recommended history.	2003-11-29
US	53074803	R108Z0BPLCNYGB	0066211735	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	4	25	27	N	N	detailed, vivid, interestingly digressive	Mention Magellan and most will tell you he's that guy that sailed around the world.  There their knowledge ends, or such as it is, since as Bergreen reminds us in wonderful detail, it was some of Magellan's crew that actually sailed around the world while the majority of it, along with Magellan himself, actually only survived part of the trip.<BR> Packed with historical detail supplemented by first person accounts and side stories that some will find of equal or surpassing interest and others might find too digressive, Bergreen gives us a satisfyingly full look at the man and the journey.<BR> The focus for the first three-quarters of the book is of course on Magellan.  His early life history is quickly covered, enough to inform us of his abilities and motivations without bogging the reader down in unnecessary detail or too much psychohistory (\\"rejected by his father at age six, young Magellan turned to the sea to prove . . . \\").  The details start to come in Magellan's early attempts to convince his native Portugal to sponsor a journey to the Spice Islands and accumulate even more fully once he takes his leave for Spain and the planning for the trip  begins in earnest.<BR>  The trip itself is covered in sharp and vivid detail--the political in-fighting, the mutual antagonisms of class and country aboard ship, multiple mutiny attempts, successful and not-so-succesful contacts with natives, and of course the nautical travails themselves--deathly storms,a myriad of navigational obstacles and pursuing Portugese. Not to mention the fact that the entire trip was based on an idea that the world was much, much smaller than it in fact turned out to be. <BR>  Most of the trip is seen through the lens of Magellan, and while a clear fan of Magellan, Bergreen is also unafraid to criticize his many errors with regard to ship policy, to politics, to contact with the natives.  Magellan comes across as a complex all-too human figure rather than an icon or simple villain. Brilliant at times and amazingly stupid at others, he never fails to hold our attention. Other important figures in the crew are offered similar respect with regard to the fullness of their portrayals.<BR>  Beside the journey's details, the reader is treated to digressions into royal relationships, international maneuvering, the importance of spices to sixteenth century economies, the running battle for economic and nautical supremacy between Spain and Portugal, and maybe most fascinating of all, a brief history of the Chinese Treasure Fleet.  While some might think Bergreen goes into too much detail here, other might wish for more.  I personally fell somewhere in between, able to live with less on the royal personages and wanting  more on the spice trade itself (those who feel the same way could do worse than turn to Nathaniel's Nutmeg for more on the topic)as well as on the Treasure Fleet.<BR>  I thought at times Bergreen could have left the \\"European\\" perspective a bit more, giving us a more full glimpse at the journey from the other end of the spectrum.  I also could have done with more frequent use of maps throughout the book to have a more immediate and visual sense of Magellan's progress (or lack thereof).  While I felt the lack of both several times, these flaws were relatively minor and only detracted somewhat from the work as a whole.  Money, lust, greed, politics, mutiny, pride, betrayal, tragic accidents, man versus nature, battles, shipwrecks, castaways, man versus man, heroism and cowardice, man versus himself.  The book has it all, with the added luxury of being true.  Well-recommended history.	2003-11-29
US	53074803	R2OOOIHJ9E1T3I	0439531640	208757740	Inkheart	Books	3	164	214	N	N	great premise weakly executed (2nd book is excellent)	The premise of Inkheart, that some have the ability to call out characters from books by reading aloud, is absolutely wonderful. At first, of course, one thinks how great to have such a talent--to call out Bilbo or Willy Wonka or Aladdin, but what if you couldn't then return them to their homes--how tragic and cruel for them. Or even worse, what if you couldn't control your talent, so reading aloud Lord of the Rings might mean you'd get to talk to a hobbit or an elf, but also means you could just as easily be suddenly facing a troll or an orc or even worse, Sauron himself. Adding another achingly sharp layer,   what if whatever was called up from the book didn't simply appear but has to replace someone else in your world so that your best friend or father or mother got sent into the book world?   All of this is great fodder for a novel, opening up literally limitless characters. Unfortunately, Inkheart falls short in the execution. The story's main plot involves the struggle between the 12 year old main character (Meggie) and her father (Mo) and an evil villain (Capricorn) and his henchmen whom Mo accidentally \\"read\\" into  being years ago, losing Meggie's mother into the book in turn.  The villain is bent on turning Mo's talent to evil intent and will stop at nothing to get Mo in his power.    Or at least, so we're told, though to be honest, for all the many sentences about how evil Capricorn is, how sadistic his chief henchman is, by the  middle of the  book, their actions come across as less \\"evil\\" than bullying.  Sure there are a lot of threats and abductions and hurling of people into \\"the crypt\\", but when nothing more untoward happens and when this sort of thing gets repeated several times, the villains tend to lose their bite.  Perhaps this is due to the young age the book might be aimed at, though in that case the earlier descriptions of Capricorn's potential for horror should probably be downplayed as well.    The story begins when Mo learns from Dustfinger(another character from Capricorn's world accidentally brought into ours) that Capricorn has learned of his hiding place and is seeking  both Mo and supposedly the only surviving copy of Capricorn's book.  Mo, Meggie, and Dustfinger flee to Meggie's Aunt's house, filled with thousands of books.  Without giving away too much, there is a betrayal, Mo is abducted as is Meggie eventually.  Then there are escapes and then more abductions.  The plot seems to circle around the same setting and even the same actions, never spiraling far from repetition, and because the villains are not particularly convincing as villains, the victories and defeats don't create much tension.    Along the way there are a few nice plot turns, such as when the author of Capricorn's book makes an appearance, but predictability returns shortly.  The characterization is relatively weak. As mentioned, the villains are not all that believable as villains, and Meggie and Mo, while sympathetic, are a bit two-dimensional.  They gain our sympathies more through  tried and true plot (the missing mother, the abducted daughter)than through depth of feeling or character.  Funke is at her strongest in the creation of her middling characters--Dustfinger, Meggie's aunt, and a young boy pulled from yet another novel in a \\"test run\\" for what is to be Mo's big work for Capricorn.  These characters, neither wholly good or wholly evil, are more complex and thus add a level of complexity and unpredictability, bringing a refreshing air here and there into the story.  They are not enough, however, and in plot, character and final resolution, Inkheart remains mostly predictable and static, lacking the richness of character, story, and description found in Funke's previous effort, The Thief Lord.    If the bad news is that Inkheart is somewhat disappointing in many ways, the good news is that Inkspell, the second book in the series, is in every way worlds better.  So while I wouldn't recommend Inkheart as a standalone book very strongly, I would highly recommend people read it and move right on to Inkspell, whose qualities more than make up for the weaknesses of the first book.  Therefore, recommended highly not for itself, but for its sequel	2003-11-29
US	53074803	R1JW1QDEJU5AGV	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Simply put--the book is brilliant	It is an understatement to call The Things They Carried one of the best books about Vietnam, though it is certainly that.  But it is also simply one of the best books written period and well-deserving of its many accolades.  A collection of interrelated stories centered on the narrator's experience both during the war as a soldier and after the war as a writer who seemingly can't not write about the war, the book is searing in its emotions and brilliant in its style and structure.<BR>  The narrator and author share the same name and in fact some of the same attributes if one bothers to look up the author.  It is, however, as the narrator is at pains to say, a work of fiction.  Some people may be bothered by the blurring of reality and fiction as it occurs in the work, but I found it emotionally and intellectually stimulating.  Some may also be put off by the non-linear structure, as the book begins mid-war and veers  back and forth in time all the way back to fifth grade (and yes there is a connection to the war stories), to O'brien's reception of the draft notice, to O'brien struggling with memories of the war and telling stories of the war 20 years later.  By telling the story \\"out of order\\", O'brien forces the reader to make the connections themselves--they may be imagistic, thematic, or character-driven, but there are always connections.  It also adds a bitter poignancy to be reading a story involving one of the men in the group whom you already know via an earlier story is not going to make it out of the war.  The characters therefore don't simply act in the stories, sometimes they literally  haunt them, enhancing the emotional impact.<BR>  Throughout O'brien interrupts the Vietnam story to give the \\"writing\\" story--How to Tell a True War Story for instance is part Vietnam-experience, part how-to manual, part recollection of a public reading.  Good Form is an explanation of why the narrator chooses to blur the line between fiction and non-fiction and frustratedthough one may be, it's hard not to see his point.<BR>  The book is rife with metaphor, symbol, simile, poetic language, use of syntax/punctuation to convey feeling and meaning-all the tricks of the stylistic trade turned to such brilliant use that they do not feel like tricks at all.  There is little flash here, just a passionate desire to tell a story, to get the reader to above all else feel, and so O'brien empties his toolbox in a wildly succesful attempt to do just that.<BR>  Almost any collection of stories fall prey to the \\"uneven\\" curse, where the great stories are balanced by the bad, the good by the mediocre.  While not all these stories are at the same level, it is hard to pick out a weak one.  One might think \\"Spin\\" since it's merely a series of vignettes.  But the language and the imagery and the depth of meaning in these seemingly too-brief paragraphs belie that first instinct.  Maybe the opening title story which lacks the first-person narrator and is broadly general in comparison, but the accretion of detail, the power of the images and brief characterizations based on what each group member carries disallows that one.<BR>  So if you can't pick out a poor story, which are the great ones?  It's difficult to choose.  My personal favorites includes Speaking of Courage for its evocation through imagery and detail and invented dialogue of how the war never really ends for some.  And then Notes would have to follow since it continues Norman's story.  How To Tell A True War Story for its beautifully terrifying depiction of friendship formed and ended along with its meta-fiction discussion of the writing process.  Spin for the spare layered beauty of its imagery.  But my overall favorite would  have to be the closing story which not only ties the book's images, actions, and themes together but also broadens it beyond the war; it breaks out of the Vietnam prison and is both heart-breaking and beautifully optimistic.<br />I have taught this work to high school students now for over ten years and every year it is the same.  It is their favorite work.  And several go out to buy their own copy to read on their own.  When I read it aloud in class, it is dead silent--something anyone who has ever been in high school as a student or teacher knows is nearly unheard of.  It would  be difficult to find a book more rich, better crafted, more emotionally powerful than this one.	2003-11-21
US	53074803	R1CQ9AQQNOI4WO	0060533404	52530182	My Cold War: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	uneven throughout but strong close	My Cold War follows John Delano, a college professor of Cold War Studies whose focus is &quot;surface and image&quot; rather than what lies beneath--the &quot;boring history stuff&quot;.  We come across Delano shortly after his father's death, which has precipitated a crisis of career and family for Delano.  He is on sabbatical for a book he cannot write, its cold war history meshing too muddily with his own more personal recollections of growing up in Long Island, his father's slide into mental illness, his eight-year estrangement from his younger brother Chris.  Finally, Delano decides to drop the book and head out to Iowa to see his brother, whom he last spoke to when he told him to basically &quot;get a life&quot; after Chris called desperate for a place to stay.<BR>  The book has its uneven moments but they are outweighed by the long stretches of good moments.  Piazza's post-war descriptions of Long Island suburbia are vividly sharp:  the cookie-cutter houses, Johnny Carson on the TV, smoking pot, a long digression on Bob Dylan's shift to electric guitar.  Delano's crisis of faith in his philosophy that image is all-important is handled well internally if brought out a bit obviously through a conversation with another faculty member.  Several of the side characters, in fact, seem a bit weak as characters:  his colleague, his wife, an old college friend, his brothers' friends in Iowa.  They often seem as if they were created to fill a role--say a few lines, spark a plot action or a memory--then made to disappear.  We see so little of them though that despite this being a pretty consistent weakness it ends up relatively minor in the novel as a whole.<BR>  The heart of the book belongs to Delano's memories of his family and his new-found desire to make contact with his brother, the former handled better than the later.  The memory scenes and Delano's present-time responses to the memories are the strength of the book both in terms of evoking an emotional responsefrom the reader and in the language which seems to sparkle in those scenes.  The scene with the brother is handled a bit too quickly and too much through internal monologue-there was so much potential there that I would have liked to have seen more.  The awkwardness, the pain, the mixture of anger and nostalgia are captured perfectly, just too glancingly.  All of that, however, is made up for by the closing scene where Delano visits his hometown.  The images and the language jump up to another level and lead to a beautifully written and heartachingly poignant close.  The book is worth it I'd say just for the last few pages alone, though there is much to recommend it before one gets there.  This is a quiet book, quietly moving, quietly captivating. It won't grab you with flashy writing or big action or larger-than-life or quirkier-than-real-life characters. And as mentioned, it has its weaknesses of character and plot.  But what it does is hold your attention through voice and some beautifully precise images.  A strong recommendation.	2003-11-20
US	53074803	R3UQ4LZ91XIJMQ	0374222150	895195193	The Night Country : A Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	marred by ending but well worth reading despite	To call this a ghost story or horror story does a disservice to both the author and the work.  It's like calling The Odyssey a ghost story because Odyseus speaks to the shades.  Yes, there are ghosts but The Night Country aims at far more than ghost story and for the most part succeeds admirably and movingly.  <BR>   The ghosts are the novel's narrators--a group of teens killed in a single-car crash exactly one year ago this Halloween (present time in the novel).  Called up whenever they are thought of, this night as on many nights they follow the actions of those most deeply affected by the event:  the policeman who was trailing them before the crash (Brooks), the boy who survived physically but not emotionally (Tim), the boy who survived but was left brain-damaged (Kyle), and Kyle's mother, who tries to reconcile her desire to save her marriage and her responsibilities to her dependent son.  One would assume the ghosts' parents would also be thinking of them, especially this night of all nights, but in one of O'Nan's many beautifully small touches, the ghost narrator tells us those will remain private.<BR>  The small town car crash, the ennui of the suburbs, the grieving mother and guilt-ridden survivor.  These all could have easily fallen into the bin of cliche.  They are saved from this by details such as the one above, by O'nan's wonderul array of voices, by his language which is both spare and poetic, and finally by the sheer depth of sadness in this book.  The reader is sad these young kids died, but then is sad again as the narrator speaks of  how already they are becoming nameless--just those &quot;car crash kids&quot;.  One first mourns the deaths, then mourns the lack of mourning.  And then one mourns more for the living--for Brooks and Tim who are bound to that night and to each other and seemingly can find no way out of that endless circle.  For Kyle's lost potential, though he is probably the happiest due to his brain-damaged oblivion.  For Kyle's mother, who has lost both the son and the husband she had only a year earlier, for Tim's parents who take good grades and a job as the marks of recovery and don't see the train bearing down on the tracks toward them. The reader feels too for the small sadnesses, such as the principal who doesn't know how to or even whether to commemorate this day in the daily announcement.  One of the many  nice surprises in the book is that the reader feels more sad for the adults in the novel than the dead kids.  Despite being alive, despite having lived if not full lives at least large portions of a life, or perhaps because of that, the reader feels their losses more heavily.  Their reactions, their thoughts, are those of bitter experience and that lifetime experience lends a sense of weight to their grief and deprivation that outweighs the more abstract sadness over the lost &quot;potential&quot; of lives cut down too early.<BR>  There is an accretion of detail and sadnes and poignancy that envelops the reader, drawing them more and more into the world of the dead or the dead-in-living.  Doom hangs over the novel-past, present, and future; we are told early on that Tim plans some huge memorial act and it doesn't take many pages or much hard thought to realize what it will  be.  Through the narrators we know Brooks and Kyle will be involved as well and like the narrators, we are mere helpless witnesses who can only go along for the ride.  We want Tim to wake from his nightmare before it's too late.  We want Brooks to be the hero the narrator tells us he is (though we are told he is as close as we get--fair warning).  We want Kyle's mother to get smoothly through the night out with her husband.  We want Kyle to recognize the faces in the photos Tim shows him.  We want all the way to the end though we have a sense where all that wanting will get us.  The impending doom makes this a suspense novel and the compression of time and place--a single day, a single small town--along with the spare language keep us heading forthrightly toward the disaster we are told to expect.<BR>  The book is not unremittingly sad; O'Nan leavens the tone here and there with some observational humor and on several occasions through the actions of two friends of the dead who feel obligated to memorialize them through various acts of vandalism.  So there are spots of humor, but they are just that-spots, and the book remains mostly bleak.<BR>  As for the ending, without obviously saying too much, I'll say that it is unfortunately the weakest part of the book.  Much of it I found simply too hard to believe--characters seemed to start to act to serve the purposes of pre-ordained plot rather than as they would have acted if just left to respond like normal (or as close as they get in this  book) people.   But despite the disappointment of the few closing pages, I couldn't help but  be moved repeatedly by this novel and much of it will be hard to shake for some time I'm thinking.  In that sense, perhaps it is a ghost story--haunting the reader who has the luck to pick it up.	2003-11-19
US	53074803	R28OEFADQ3QX4B	1401300316	342799200	The Center of Everything	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	warm story well told	The Center of Everything follows the main character Evelyn from ten to her late teens in small town Kansas.  She lives with her unmarried mother and then later her mentally handicapped brother while also spending a lot of time with her fundamentalist grandmother and her two best friends Travis and Deena.<BR>  The book's premise is a familiar one and lends itself toward a pedestrian trip over well-worn territory, but while there are some flat or awkward moments, for the most part Moriarty transcends the genre.  The biggest reason for this is that the author's characters are fully three-dimensional, seemingly simple on the surface but much more complex in action and response.  Deena as the pretty but not-too-bright girl; Travis as the warm-hearted juvenile delinquent; Eileen as the strict fundamentalist grandmother.  All of these could easily have become caricature and to be honest, there were a few times they edged close, mostly in the beginning.  Thankfully, Moriarty managed to skirt those dangers and allowed the characters to deepen as the book went on.<BR>  As for the two main characters, Evelyn and her mother, they stand out for the depth of their emotions and voices.  The mother, Tina, deals with the scorn of both the town and her own father (shown in a wonderfully oblique fashion early on when Evelyn is too young and naive to recognize what she is reporting to the reader), the consequences of her own bad decisions, and the seeming hopelessness of her son's handicap.  We see her warts and all and though sometimes we may want to shake her, you can't help but root for her through it all or feel for her in the worst moments.<BR>  The same is true for Evelyn, whose voice smoothly and winningly carries the novel.  Moriarty's teens speak and think like teens and not like adults imagine them thinking, a refreshing change from too much stilted teen dialogue or bad slang in other coming-of-age books.  And while Evelyn is of course more eloquent than the typical girl herage (it is a novel after all), the disconnect is rarely if ever distracting.  There are some just beautifully painful teen scenes in this book, such as the moment when Evelyn realizes the boy she like is attracted to Deena.  Moriarty captures this time of life vividly and realistically.<BR>   Sometimes the historical context is a bit awkward--references to Reagan for instance or to the TV movie The Day After--, Moriarty uses them to make connections or insights that are probably best made through the characters themselves rather than set pieces like these, but these are small flaws in a book that endears the reader to its narrator and leaves you sorry to leave her behind.	2003-11-19
US	53074803	R15TTIPE2B89KA	0688170870	903507666	Inside Freight Train	Books	5	9	10	N	N	pull up your drink--you'll be reading this one a lot!	Normally I'd be upset if a book fell apart on me like Crews' Inside Freight Train.  But the truth is, the book had no chance.  From the moment we bought this book our 14-month-old son had to read it. And read it.  And read it.  Worse, he had to have it read to him.  And to him.  And to him.  I don't know what the guaranteed amount of \\"pull-outs\\" the page had, but I'm sure we exceeded them in the first week. No sooner would we turn the last page and slide it back in than he'd sign more and we'd start all over.  I stopped counting after 20+ readings in one sitting.  The pages slide in and out easily even for little hands.  The illustrations are clear and colorful, not overly busy.  The amount of text is just right.  The interactiveness--being able to pull the pages out, being able to anticipate what will be inside--is a wonderful bonus.  Highly recommended.  Though I'd also recommend buying two--we eventually did.	2003-11-19
US	53074803	R250JLPI34XYDR	0689315155	932953136	Good Night Kiss, The	Books	5	0	0	N	N	wonderfully pacing and pictures	I picked this up at a library book sale based on a quick look at the pictures.  It has become one of our family's favorites for our two-year-old boy.  Beginning with a frog peeking out from a lily pad, the book follows through beautiful full-page impressionistic style illustrations a chain of connections leading finally to a mother leaning over the close of a bedtime book to kiss her child goodnight.  The frog leads for instance to a racoon, then to a deer, to an owl, to cars and trucks and trains and eventually to the penultimate snow-white moth that flies up to the bedroom window.  The text has a wonderfully smooth and soothing pace to it, a nice rhythm and repetition of lines (\\"and when that frog\\" . . . \\"and when that racoon . . \\").  Visually and aurally, this is a wonderful  book, especially obviously for  bedtime.	2003-11-19
US	53074803	R36D4QUKS1NBPK	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	2	1972	2596	N	N	impressive for a 17-yr-old, clearly written by a 17-yr-old	What you almost always hear first about this book is \\"wow, it was written by a 17-yr-old\\".  And the author is fully deserving of the respect and admiration he gets--it is indeed an impressive book for a 17-year-old to have written.  What he probably should not have gotten was a publishing contract, since while it is impressive for a 17-yr-old, it is less than impressive for a published work  of fiction.<br />  If an adult had written and published this, I would have been disgusted (as I was with the Sword of Shannara)  with the clear calculation that had gone into the work:  \\"ok, I'll take a lot of Tolkien, a lot of McCaffery, a good amount of Leguin, some Dragonlance, some Star Wars, etc.  It will be a can't miss book.\\"  Since it's the product not of an adult but of a teenager, it comes across much more positively--as a work of fiction by someone who has read lots and absorbed lots of fantasy and simply didn't have the experience (or the good editor) to take out all of his favorite parts of other works.  How can I dislike or be too critical of someone who so obviously loved some of my own favorite authors, loved them so much that they simply took over his book through I'm guessing no fault of his own.<br />  And that in a nutshell is the problem with Eragon.  The story is cliched, formulaic and barely passable as are the characters and the language is simply what you would expect from a somewhat precocious teen fan of adult fantasy.  If you have any experience in the field of fantasy at all, reading Eragon will feel like a visit to Las Vegas (though not so tacky)--sure you can see New York and Paris and Italy, but they are mere shadows of the real thing.  So McCaffery's telepathic link between dragon and rider is here, but not the powerful emotionality of her (especially earlier) works.  LeGuin's idea of one true name and one true language forming the backbone of magic is here, but not her masterful sense of order and balance and restraint, not to mention the sparse beauty of her language.  And of course, the graceful, bow-carrying elves, the gruff and secretive mentor with magical powers, the withdrawn dwarves, etc. all show up in their correct place and time.  As a high school English teacher, the story and characters are exactly what I would expect to see if I picked up one of my fantasy fan's personal notebooks off of their desks and began reading.  Even the people and place names are far too imitative (as opposed to inspired by).  To be perfectly honest, it was so much like my students' writings I had to struggle to continue past the first ten pages.<br />  Does that mean nobody could enjoy this book?  A quick look at the reviews clearly shows that many have (most of them young I'm sure).  If you have read Tolkien, McCaffery, LeGuin, Jordan, Lewis, Pullman, Donaldson, etc., then I'd strongly suggest skipping Eragon.  You'll not only be heavily disappointed by the weaknesses in plot, character development, and language, but you'll probably be annoyed at how often your favorite authors appear in borrowed and poorer clothing.  If you have little experience in fantasy and so won't be bothered by the obviously derivative nature of this book, you'll probably enjoy it but there are far better works to  begin a lifetime of fantasy reading with and even if you start with Eragon, I hope you quickly move onto them, beginning with the above list and adding for younger readers people like Lloyd Alexander, E. Nesbit, Robin McKinley, and many, many others.  I'd like to see what this young author comes up with in another five-ten years,  but for now he's still retelling the stories he liked himself, rather than writing down his own.beauty of her language.  And of course, the graceful, bow-carrying elves, the gruff and secretive mentor with magical powers, the withdrawn dwarves, etc. all show up in their correct place and time.  As a high school English teacher, the story and characters are exactly what I would expect to see if I picked up one of my fantasy fan's personal notebooks off of their desks and began reading.  Even the people and place names are far too imitative (as opposed to inspired by).  To be perfectly honest, it was so much like my students' writings I had to struggle to continue past the first ten pages.<BR>  Does that mean nobody could enjoy this book?  A quick look at the reviews clearly shows that many have (most of them young I'm sure).  If you have read Tolkien, McCaffery, LeGuin, Jordan, Lewis, Pullman, Donaldson, etc., then I'd strongly suggest skipping Eragon.  You'll not only be heavily disappointed by the weaknesses in plot, character development, and language, but you'll probably be annoyed at how often your favorite authors appear in borrowed and poorer clothing.  If you have little experience in fantasy and so won't be bothered by the obviously derivative nature of this book, you'll probably enjoy it but there are far better works to  begin a lifetime of fantasy reading with and even if you start with Eragon, I hope you quickly move onto them, beginning with the above list and adding for younger readers people like Lloyd Alexander, E. Nesbit, Robin McKinley, and many, many others.  I'd like to see what this young author comes up with in another five-ten years,  but for now he's still retelling the stories he liked himself, rather than writing down his own.	2003-11-15
US	53074803	R3N0VTJMMHIU04	0375410082	412479139	Waxwings: A novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	rich in character and theme	If you've read some of the earlier reviews, I can attest that several of the criticisms have a point:  he is at times overly preachy, the book does have a slow beginning, and he does occasionally drop too many brand or local names.  That's the bad and it isn't much in comparison to what I found to be a wonderfully paced and peopled novel.  <BR>  To begin with, while I can see how some might call the opening slow or drifting, I found its pace more pleasingly meditative rather than annoyingly slow. And as for its place in the novel, it may not seem to make much sense as you're reading it in terms of what the bookjacket or a review led you to think the novel is about, but once you've gotten into the heart of the novel, those opening pages read much differently.  Their characters may have disappeared, but their tone and their content and their thematic underpinnings remain like a haunting echo.  An echo which is nicely and playfully emphasized by a literary mini-seminar given by the main character with regards to a similar opening in a better known work.<BR>  As for  the preachiness, yes, at times Raban could have hit us a little more lightly or a little less frequently with the absurdity of the dot-com bubble,  but it makes for such a rich and tempting target that it's easy to see how he could fall into that trap. And since almost all his hits are smack on target and funny as well, I'll give him the over-indulgence.  The same holds true for the brand-name dropping.<BR>  So much for the book's weaknesses. As for the strengths, they are plentiful.  The major character, Tom, is a Hungarian-born, British expat who has found himself at the start of the book in a surprisingly happy life--he loves both his wife and small son, enjoys both the responsibilities and lack of responsibilities his job as a college professor bring, and is in love with both the larger setting of Seattle and the smaller one of his old home with his wide-girth timber shoring up the foundations (it givesnothing away to say the house isn't quite as solid as it seems on the surface).<BR>  One by one the facets of his life which he has so taken for granted are either taken from him and changed--his wife leaves him, his relationship with his son changes, his house betrays him,  his employer dumps him &quot;temporarily&quot; until the small matter of a major crime he may or may not be a suspect in is resolved.  Through it all, start to finish, Tom is painted in rich, believable detail--from his tightly-written humorous pieces for NPR to his Mister Wicked bedtime stories to his tendency to develop a  heavy Hungarian accent when he speaks to his mother on the phone to his obliviousness to what is happening around him (and even to his oblivousness of what things to change when he decides he does need to start making a change).  <BR>  The other character, Chick, is drawn more starkly but just as sharply.  Where Tom lends himself to meandering eloquence, Chick, a Chinese illegal immigrant who survived over a week in a cargo container where two of the dozen-plus men died, is all business.  Illegal underground economy business, but all business.  His dialogue is short and sharp and his language is stripped of all of Tom's pretensions and floweriness.  In contrast to Tom's slow, passive, dimly-felt fall, Chick is all lift and action and aspiration.  He moves steadily and forcefully up the ranks of the underground economy so that by the time he and Tom meet, he is more master of the situation than Tom.  What brings them together is Tom's house, which Tom agrees to have Chick &quot;and his Mexicans&quot; fix up (and as we've seen, sometimes a house is more than a house).<BR>  These two are the focus of the vast majority of the novel.  Tom's wife suffers somewhat in comparison in terms of depth of character; at times she is painted too easily in broad dot-com strokes, but just when you think she might be falling into two-dimensions Raban rescues her with a beautiful scene or moment.  The same is less true of her boss, but he is such a minor character that it doesn't matter much.  Another secondary character, a fellow Brit-writer, is as richly drawn though in far less space and adds a good sense of comic relief at appropriate times.<BR>  Plot is another strength.  As already mentioned, the book opens in a somewhat odd way and the book continues to take pleasingly strange twists and turns.  It's a domestic novel.  No, it's a coming-of-age (though very, very late) novel.  No, it's a mystery.  Tone is constantly shifting throughout and Raban handles it all effortlessly, shifting humorous gears, for instance, from gently reflectively funny to observationally funny to biting satire to &quot;why did the chicken cross the playground?&quot;    <BR>  Thematically, the book's richness starts on page one and continues all the way to the waxwings image which closes the book.  Imagery, symbol, metaphor, parallel characters or events, all of these are the tools employed by Raban in conveying his themes and though as earlier mentioned some may seem a bit obvious, other are not quite so and overall the effect is that of a multi-layered, carefully wrought piece of intelligent literature, one that settles about the reader slowly, like a flock of birds or motes of asbestos dust.  As far as that ending, I personally don't find it to be quite the neat resolution that some have said, or quite the obvious message as others have mentioned.  Like much of what came before, I found it a pleasant surprise.  <BR>After reading about five or six  books in a row, all of which were disappointingly mediocre at best, simply bad at worst, Waxwings felt like a rejuventating bath in the luxury of literature.  Highly recommended.	2003-11-14
US	53074803	R1QY67O206603L	0609611038	934301522	Tunneling: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	better idea than execution	Rachel Finch is a dual-level time traveler.  In half the book, she travels through time in the normal fashion of a coming-of-age story.  In another part of the book she literally (and literarily) travels in time with &quot;S-Man&quot; on &quot;rescue missions&quot; to writers as Shakespeare, Wilde, Voltaire, among others.  Though the dangers are more obvious in her travels to other times and places, anyone who has experienced middle and high school won't be surprised to find that those journeys are equally perilous.<BR>  The book starts off with one of the best openings I've read in a while.  Unfortunately, it gradually loses its promise.  The set fantasy pieces read great in outline/sketch form (save Shakespeare from writer's block by inspiring The Tempest, see what happens when Voltaire and Rousseau are forced to share the cramped confines of a wardrobe, etc.) but on the full page they never quite satisfy, almost as if most of the energy came in the brainstorming, leaving the author a bit too tired to put it into the actual writing.  The scenes' brevity exacerbates the problem because you seldom get to see the historical figures as doing more than quickly playing their parts as  historical figures.  Because they don't come across as fully fleshed people, both the characters and our meetings with them fall flat.  The same is true of S-Man--a character crying out for more time and substance.  Well-read readers will enjoy the literary jokes and will like seeing familiar faces in somewhat unfamiliar settings, but it is more the small sense of enjoyment one gets at the mall by seeing an acquaintance going up the escalator while you go down than that of seeing a good friend in a pub window and popping in to share a glass and some laughs.<BR>  Bosworth does a better job with the real-time scenes, strongly conveying the depth and range of emotions that play out during those early and middle teen years.  Layered on top of the typical adolescent angst and family problems are issues of civil rights and the environment, both of which are smoothly integrated into the storylines.  <BR> Weaving back and forth between Rachel's dual lives (stopping  now and then for some unnecessary and detracting authorial intrusions), Bosworth brings both plotlines crashing (again, literally) together in an ending that came across as forced and that once again seemed to fall flat in comparison to its potential.  <BR>   One running problem I had with the novel is that I too often felt bounced about between not just scenes but actual lines, almost as if someone had somehow stolen my copy and whited out transitional dialogue or internal monologue or even full scenes.  It is rare that I have the feeling as I'm reading that I don't know why people are doing what they are doing or saying what they are saying, but I felt that in multiple scenes in this book.  I'm sure this &quot;bounced around&quot; feeling also contributed to the lack of emotive impact of many of the novel's scenes.<BR>  Looking back on the book, the weakest parts by far were the time-travel sections, but while the real-time scenes were better, they were not good enough to carry this as simply a regular coming-of-age novel, perhaps partly because scenes that could carry more weight--both in terms of plot and character/plot development were sacrificed to the time-travel scenes.  And it is the time-traveling literary aspect of the book that piqued my curiosity in the first place and which so excited me as a reading prospect--I would have hated to have had someone tell Bosworth early on to simply drop them and write your everyday coming-of-age text.  Instead, I think she needed someone to say--&quot;great idea, but can you keep working on it?&quot;  Maybe it was just too ambitous a project for a debut novel.  I'd love to see it again ten years from now after she writes another novel or three and then takes this one out of the drawer again.  But in this version, I can't recommend it.	2003-11-14
US	53074803	RFWEO4A3GVAIY	076530158X	365011657	Dune: The Machine Crusade	Books	3	12	13	N	N	more uneven than the first	As everyone knows by now, this isn't Dune.  The first prequel wasn't nor will this one be.  The problem isn't that this book doesn't match up well against Dune, it's that it doesn't match up well against its predecessor, the Butlerian Jihad, which itself was mostly solid rather than excellent.  The Machine Crusade is a bit of a step backward for this series.<BR>As in Butlerian Jihad, characterization continues to be pretty shallow, with several characters once again making transitions of behavior that really haven't been earned by the story.  And some characters are simply skimped on.<BR>The prequel problem of predictability due to simply filling in the design you're aiming at is more on display here than in book one, and while I can understand the need at some point for that last line (no spoilers here), making it the last line emphasizes the dangers in writing prequels--the sense your reader  has that the story is being uncovered rather than growing.<BR>The plot remains the strong point, but here too it is weaker than the first book.  Some of it is too contrived while some of it takes turns more for the plot's sake than for any natural development.  And the structure, which remains cutting back and forth between multiple characters and plotlines, in this  book does a disservice to several characters and storylines while in the first book it served to create tension and suspense.  We leave one story and when we come back to it too much has happened in the meantime that would be better shown than told or simply assumed.  And I have to confess that some of the plot I just didn't get the necessity of.  Some sections reinforced ideas that were pretty clear already.  Some were simply repetitive, both from this book and the previous one. And some simply dwelled on characters because it seemed the authors felt it was time to get back there for a while.   I thought this book needed much more editing than the first.  Not necessarily to cut the length so much as to redistribute it.  There was a lot that could have been freely excised which in turn could have freed  up some space to do some better characterization or more sophisticated plot development.<BR>Because of the weak characterization and the overweight plot, many of the set &quot;emotional&quot; scenes are anti-climatic and fall pretty lightly on the heart.  Rather than bring a tear (ok, they probably weren't aiming at tears but at least some sadness) they mostly elicit a shrug of the shoulders or a &quot;yeah, that had to happen&quot; sort of feeling, as opposed to any sense of loss.<BR>Overall, this work suffers from a common middle book syndrome--it serves its purpose as a bridge to book three and that's about it. There is little spark here, just a lot of concrete.  You'll have to read it to get to Book three I'm sure, but don't feel bad if you decide to skim a bit here and there.	2003-11-06
US	53074803	RS0R0AV9ANHSM	0765340771	936885917	Dune: The Butlerian Jihad: Book One of the Legends of Dune Trilogy	Books	4	4	8	N	N	solid and steady if not overwhelming	As one would expect, this book doesn't match the original but it's unfair of course to compare this work (the single book or the entire trilogy) to the original Dune series, which well deserves its place in science fiction history. One of the ways to somewhat neutralize the natural temptation of readers to compare is to delve so far back in the history of Dune that  you are working from an almost clean slate, which is what Andersen and Herbert do with their newest prequel trilogy, set several millenia previous to Dune's world.  If it doesn't hold up to the original, how does it stand as its own novel?  The answer is not bad, though the next answer has to be not great.<BR>   The strong points are the plot and structure.  While the book probably could have used some cutting, its length is not unreasonable for its story.  The structure, which involves cutting between several independent though eventually converging plotlines and characters, is well-suited both to the book's complexity (allowing for lots of information to be conveyed in manageable chunks) and length (adding suspense by cutting away at prime moments).  And the plot is interesting in its own right,  beyond being a simple nod to the &quot;I want to see how they explain where this came from&quot; readers of Dune.  One of the grave dangers of prequels is that one ends up with a work wholly contrived to connect the future dots, a book where the author just has to fill in the blanks-mention this legend here, drop this name there, explain the origin of this ritual over there.  For the most part, the authors avoid that here, and even in the rare instances where you have the feeling it's happening, it's over relatively quickly and painlessly (I actually thought it was more noticeable in the second  book of the series).<BR>  The weak point of the book, as is often the justifiable complaint with science fiction, is the characterization.  Too many characters feel plot-driven or two-dimensional.  And one of the majorcharacters, the Atreides heir, is simply unbelievable in his transition.  One would think that in a 500 + page  book there could be some more allowance for slower, more realistic character development, but sadly that's not the case here (check out Westerfeld's The Risen Empire/Succession for an example of how to do more characterization in half the space).<BR>The lack of good characterization detracts from an otherwise well-told story (especially in that unfair comparison to the original series), but it doesn't get too much in the way of enjoying the story on its own right, or in getting some answers to the questions Dune fans have been asking for decades.	2003-11-06
US	53074803	R3NPC8XF87TQRH	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	3	4	7	N	N	laugh out loud at times, not so funny other times	without getting into a political screaming match, as some of the reviews seems to do, I'll just announce early on that I'm probably one of those Bush-hating liberals the book was aimed at.  So take the review at whatever value you'd now like to.  That said, I found the book to be mixed in  both its humor and effectiveness.  Part of the reason I think is that this book is much less focused than his earlier book on Rush.  Having a single focus in that book allowed Franken to bore in on topic, to have a sense of cohesion and chronology.  Here, going after all the right, the effect is much more diffuse.  Some sections are sharp and funny,  others are mostly funny, and some aren't particularly funny at all (for instance, the chickenhawk short story which has its moments but goes on way too long).  The other major problem Franken himself alludes to in his introduction when he says it was like shooting fish in a barrel.  People like Coulter and Hannity are such obvious clowns--unserious people who come out and do some shtick while behind the scenes the serious, talented people are getting ready to do serious work--they are such obvious clowns that pointing out their &quot;clownishness&quot; is just too obvious.  When Coulter basically says all democrats are traitors to their country, it isn't particularly perceptive to point out that she's an idiot.  So Franken's subjects fail him more often than his style.  And because he tries to get all of them, he is forced to skim through  leaving him open to O'reilly's charge of &quot;that's all you got?&quot; (though it's pretty clear it isn't).  There are strong moments in this book, both in terms of serious discussion of policy contrasts and in laugh-out-loud lines and images. He has good numbers to  back up most of his points, so it doesn't read simply as a rant.  It's a quick read thanks to his style so even if you find it uneven you quickly get through the worse sections and back into the strong ones.  Overall, it's a good light-hearted but with a serious bite look at the more obvous fools of the right.   A good browse-through book.  If you're looking for a more in-depth debunking of the right's favorite war cries, I'd go to Joe Conason's book.  If you want an in-depth, sharply critical look at Bush's policies with a bit of edgy humor, go to Molly Ivin's Bushwhacked.  But if you want to laugh out loud a few times, feel a little mean but guiltily satisfied, pick up this one.	2003-10-31
US	53074803	R3SPCSRI4SBF2S	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	49	59	N	N	good mesh of  hard numbers and biting commentary	It should be obvious from the title that unthinking fans of Bush will not like this book, will probably not read it, and if they do will probably not believe it.  More thoughtful Bush adherents still might not believe all of it, but there's so much detail and hard factual background to it that it might cause them to think twice about some of his policies.  Bush-haters, of course, will enjoy it both for its content and its style, though anyone looking for more &quot;red-meat&quot; blistering sort of attacks would do better to read Franken's new book which has less depth but more anger and sheer nastiness (also more humor, uneven as the book is).  Ivin's book is more along the lines of Joe Conason's--a step-by-step critique of Bush's policies:  their formation, implementation, and effect leading to the hard to argue against conclusion that Bush' policies, intentionally or not, by far  benefit the power class.  <BR>Each chapter is devoted to a separate policy for the most part, though some are closely related and they all flow smoothly from one to the other.  Though constant in its criticism, it is not a rant because, rather than just doing a lot of shouting, Ivins marshalls her facts in strong support of her arguments.  She gives the numbers, the extended quotes from memos, the quotes from senior officials, etc.  And while the wit is sharp and biting, it is never over-the-top or overly personal.  <BR>  To complement the large supply of statistics and officialese, Ivins brings in real-world people affected, negatively of course, by Bush's policies.  She isn't saying no one has benefited from Bush's policies, that simply isn't her focus here.  Her argument would be that those who have benefited are overwhelmingly the rich and/or powerful while those middle-class and lower who have benefited are in the clear minority.  Her use of people who have suffered due to deregulation and other Bush policies serves to ground the more abstract arguments in a reality that is hard forthe reader to ignore.  It's easy to ask whether the cost-benefit analysis of screening meat supplies more rigorously makes it worth it in the abstract; it's less easy to make that argument faced with the tragic reality of the mother whose son died in lingering, horrible fashion due to contaminated meat.  And it is that sort of person-on-the-street reporting that makes this book more than a preach to the choir sort of book  but may open some non-Bush-bashers to thinking a bit more about the effects of some of his policies.  <BR>  Much of this has been gone over before (some of it in Ivin's work Shrub, much of it in newspapers and magazines), but not in this detail.  And when all of it is laid out together, it makes for a much more damning critique than the isolated stories that dribble out every few months.  There is so much  here that even though some might find a few details worth quibbling over or some of it overstated, that still leaves a lot of substantive criticism that's hard to refute.  And the style is so reasonable that it's hard to dismiss as just an angry liberal venting.  Anyone who saw Molly Ivins during the Franken-O'Reilly dust-up on the  book panel can see this is a woman of fairness and reason, not a red-faced blusterer.	2003-10-31
US	53074803	R2J93V690NMUHQ	0765308509	456403759	The Killing of Worlds: Book Two of Succession	Books	5	8	8	N	N	strong sequel with room for more	There's no reason to go into the background of this one since you really have to have read book one (The Risen Empire) so anyone who comes to this will already be familiar with the characters and setting.  If you liked The Risen Empire, then you'll also like Succession, since it carries on the story in similar style and fashion.  There are some differences.  Westerfeld ups the tech-talk in this one and it isn't quite so smoothly integrated as in The Risen Empire.  Or at least, it distracts a little bit  more.  Those well-versed in sci-fi hard science jargon might not find it distracting but as a rare reader of the genre, there were a few places where I could have done with a little less.  Westerfeld employs the same structure as in book one, cutting  back and forth between events in space with the captain and on-planet with the senator, as well as going back in time to their burgeoning relationship.  He also cuts to the Rix warrior,  but as she is on board ship with the captain for part of the novel, it's less often and less far astray setting-wise than in The Risen Empire.  As in that first book, the cuts are handled deftly--they are never confusing and are often timed perfectly to keep tension high.  Since there is less need to fill in societal  background in a sequel, Westerfeld is freed somewhat to up the ante in terms of action and suspense; this holds especially true for the space battle scenes which have the captain leaping from the proverbial frying pan into the fire,  but then adding to the proverb a few extra steps, such as throwing gasoline rather than water onto the fire.  It all makes for an exciting plot which is enhanced  by characters you care about and an underlying theme which leads to some larger, more philosophical questions beyond &quot;how the hell do I get out of this.&quot;  My one complaint about book one was that I thought it was slim enough so that one book would have sufficed.  Succession is slim enough that I still think that holds true,but Westerfeld clearly leaves himself room (though it is an option, not a necessity) to make the work even longer.  My only real complaint about the sequel (the additional jargon being a minor distraction) is that there wasn't enough of the house.  I hope if he does continue it we get to return to my favorite multi-storied character.	2003-10-30
US	53074803	R3EE50ZLU7IK5V	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	1	59	82	N	N	300+ pages--just didn't care (&amp; no, I'm not a lazy reader)	I hadn't planned on reviewing this since who needs another bad review?  I changed my mind after reading a few of the other reviews.  While I can respect those who enjoyed this book, I think many of the positive reviews are a bit smug, self-righteous, and self-congratulatory in their dismissal of the bad reviews.  Describing those who didn't care for Quicksilver as people looking for a car chase or a Grisham thriller or who prefer television to &quot;stretching their minds&quot; or who would rather read the newest &quot;pap&quot; etc. are far too dismissive, as well as insulting and arrogant in their assumption that disliking this book is somehow due a a want of intelligence or literacy.  Please.  The length of the book did not daunt me--I reread the entire Wheel of Time series every other book as they come out and before you dismiss me as just a fantasy reader as some have in the reviews, I've also read all of Proust's long work and Bleak House is one of my all-time favorite novels.  The slow pace did not bother me in principle--Proust has never been accused of being a roller-coaster thrill ride.  The language did not bother me--I've read and enjoyed Chaucer in the original Middle English.  The historical details did not bother me.  In the past year I've read (lengthy) bios of Adams, Franklin, Hamilton, Jefferson and several analyses of the origins of the Constitution--for pleasure not for an assignment.  The science did not bother me--I'm a regular reader of non-fiction science books and essays and Andrea Barret who regularly mixes science in with her work is one of my favorites.  The character choices did not bother me--I've recently read two bios of Newton.  So if I tell you that I gave this book over three hundred pages and simpy could not justify putting in the two or three days to finish it, and then another week or two over the next two years to complete the entire work, perhaps you should consider that it is not my inability as a reader but weaknesses in thetext that led me to that decision.  I found neither the plot nor the characters at all compelling. In fact, I found them, quite simply, to be dull which came as quite the surprise since I am quite interested in the time period and have never found this author dull.  I found the introduction of historical facts all too often clumsily handled and at times simply gratuitous.  I found the dialogue uneven both in terms of historical accuracy and in simply relating normal speech.  I have enjoyed almost all of his other works, as I've said I find the time period and subject matter interesting, and I gave this book more than the benefit of the doubt.   Some of you may have found the plot (which I found thin) or the characters (also thin) more interesting.  Obviously some of you did.  But please don't pat yourself on the back because you were just better able to &quot;handle&quot; the slow pace or &quot;difficult&quot; vocabulary than the more dim-witted of us who simply didn't like the book.  I would tell anyone interested in this book to try and take it out of the library or sit down in a bookstore for an hour or so and see if they find themselves pulled along before dropping some twenty dollars on it.  And I say that sadly.  With that, I'm now off to continue my latest Danielle Steele book while I finish watching my tape of &quot;Best of Jerry Springer.&quot;	2003-10-20
US	53074803	R1HY4S787WLLAH	0871139006	748412016	The Mammoth Cheese: A Novel	Books	4	22	24	N	N	a good read and a better ending	You gotta give credit to someone willing to title her book The Mammoth Cheese.  Luckily, the story stands strong against the title.  This is a more sprawling work than Holman's The Dress Lodger.  While its geographic base is pretty focused, rarely leaving the small town it is set in, the story spins through a large number of characters and several major plotlines, including a pending farm foreclosure, a Presidential election, the aftermath of a divorce, the birth of 11 babies to one mother, a spiritual crisis, several mid-life crises, unrequited love, a growing relationship between a teacher and his pupil though whether it tends toward good or bad remains up in the air for a while, and of course, the creation and transport of the mammoth cheese itself.  That's a lot to tackle and Holman admirably handles the load.  As one might expect with so many characters, some are not as fully fleshed out as one would like.  The history teacher and the ex-husband in particular I thought were a  bit weak in their portrayal, as is the mother of 11 until somewhat later in the book.  While their lack of full depth is noticeable, it does not detract over much from the work as a whole.  And their somewhat shallow development is more than made up for by the rest of the characterization, which is deeply satisfying.  One begins to care for and root for these characters early on.  We take on their hopes and desires along with their despair and fear.  The woman desperately trying to hold onto her farm and family, the Jefferson impersonator trying to figure out who he is behind his persona, the minister struggling with his recent decisions and his possible motivations, eventually the mother of 11, and perhaps most of all, the young daughter struggling to find herself among and sometimes in spite of all these adults surrounding her.  The tension steadily rises throughout the novel as questions come nearer their answers, answers which Holman skillfully manages to not foreshadow too obviously.And because we care about the characters, we care greatly about the answers.  There are moments that are truly terrifying, especially as one moves toward the close.  It seems lately that my biggest complaint about recent books, even ones I loved such as Lovely Bones or Bel Canto, is that so many of them have had poor or even terribly endings.  I'm happy to say this book broke the trend.  The ending here is not only earned by what has gone before, but is the best part of the book.  Another complaint I've had a lot lately is that so many characters in a lot of recent books have acted not as real people would but in ways to service the plot.  Once again, The Mammoth Cheese shines as the opposite.  all of the characters, even the small ones, even the ones not so well drawn, at least act human.  They do dumb things, they doubt, they make mistakes, they get lucky.   and because we can recognize ourselves in their thoughts and actions we care even more about what happens to them.  I wouldn't call this a great book or say as some reviewers have that I couldn't put it down though I never considered doing so.  It did bog down in two or three places, though only briefly, and as mentioned, some characters were too sketchy for my liking, but even in the slow parts I wanted to read on because I wanted to know what happened to these people.  More than wanting to know, I wanted the right things to happen to them.  I won't say if they did, but it's worth finding out.	2003-10-15
US	53074803	R1PU6TQF4TNE4A	0765307049	536645124	Darknesses (Corean Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	not great but solid and well-paced	First off, though this does stand as in independent story in what is called the Corean Chronicles, it will make a lot more sense to you and you'll be a lot more invested in the characters if you read the first  book ahead of time.  Darknesses returns to the same main character, Alucius, who remains as in the first a reluctant soldier caught up in battles and politics he'd rather not wage, preferring to set down his sword and his strange Talent and return home to be a herder with his new wife.  This book roams further afield than the first book as Alucius is sent to various locales (helps to periodically check the map to keep all his travels and the stratagems behind them straight) and involves more characters, which helps prevent it from feeling stale.  As in the first, the world and especially the military world is prevented in a gritty realism and while there is a lot of detail regarding troop movement etc., Modesitt is careful not to let it overwhelm the story or bog it down.  It's a smoothly paced book throughout, helped by the many quick shifts of character and setting.  Some of the side characters are given short shrift, but Modesitt does a nice job with the one ruler he focuses most on, giving us a seemingly full sense of character but in a nice deft touch, without revealing to us whether he will turn out friend or foe to Alucius.  Problems with the book are minor though distracting:  The major villains of the story (as opposed to the many smaller ones) are introduced a  bit too abruptly and through too much exposition as opposed through the natural flow of action and dialogue.  There is a bit too much deus ex machina intertwined with that story line as well.  The jumps back to his herder homestead are somewhat perfunctory. And some of Alucius' actions and dialogue started to feel a bit repetitive, such as his many protests (clearly unbelieved  by most he protested to) that he is just a normal guy doing his job.  Overall though, it's an enjoyable read which expands on the first book and leaves some clear openings as well for future material.  It won't wow you, but you'll have a good time.	2003-10-08
US	53074803	RZS08ZPP9OVJ7	0765306336	439488142	A Fortress of Grey Ice: Book Two of Sword of Shadows	Books	4	4	6	N	N	improves on and deepens the first book	As one might expect from the obvious length, there's a lot going on in Jones' second work of this series.  The book is constantly shifting between locals and characters, offering many storylines, each of them interesting and tension-filled in their own right.  Jones has a nice touch for when to turn away and when to return, seemingly having no trouble juggling the multiple plots, which in turn means the reader also has no problem.  The important characters are too many to name (another testament to Jones' juggling ability), but again we spend a lot of time with Raif the clan outcast and the various members of his family--brother, sister, widowed mother, uncle; Ash March--the girl &quot;Reach&quot; whose ability is a danger to herself and the entire world; and the Dog Lord who is having some buyer's remorse about the means employed and the end result of his attempt to become king of the clans.  Whereas in the first book Ash and Raif come together, in this one they are separated and become two wholly independent storylines, giving Jones the opportunity to broaden and deepen our understanding of the world. Through their two stories we spend a lot of time with the Maimed Men (a semi-clan formed of outcasts) and the Sull, an older race than man whose history is given in more detail than in the first, giving the reader a sense of the larger battle between good and evil that is raging above, beyond, and through, the more petty human wars.  New side characters are introduced and as is typical of Jones, given full flesh so that they stand as characters in their own right as opposed to plot movers.  Raif's time with the Maimed Men and Ash's journey to the heartland of the Sull are both well-plotted and paced and filled with tension.  Meanwhile, the clan wars grow as I've said in complexity as motivations become cloudy, unintended results become clear, new characters enter the stage, new alliances form, even  between former enemies.  Through it all stand the Dog Lord, one of Jones' best characters and most human and even at times most humane (even as he orders the deaths of many) and Raina, Raif's mother who sacrifices her own happiness to do what's  best for her clan, though she struggles throughout the book with just what that means.  Then there are the storylines involving Raif's younger sister, terrorized by Mace Blackhail and accused of witchcraft; the sorceror's former servant who escapes the mines and treks across the land to try and rescue his lord from below the Splinter, the various machinations of those who would be rulers--the surlord Iss, his general One-Eye, his sorcerous accomplice.  What most impresses is not simply the complexity of the plot or the manner in which Jones manages to make that complexity readable, but also the complexity of the characters and their decisions.  while grey is the color of the ice in the title, it could also stand for many of the situations the characters find themselves in.  There is little clear-cut in this work.  Characters are seldom if ever given an easy--there is rarely a choice between good and bad but rather between bad and less bad.  Our characters can't avoid killing and Jones doesn't give them or the reader an out by making everyone they kill evil.  Characters are torn, they are unsure, and even their best intentions sometimes rebound on them in horrible ways.  And here comes the bad part.  She does such a good job of creating, maintaining, and raising the tension, such a good job of creating complex situations and complex characters, that several of the endings to the storylines feel anti-climatic in the way in which they happen so abruptly.  Resolved or unresolved, they come to a close in a rushed fashion, robbing the book at the very end of much of its power.  But, if the biggest complaint is a few dozen pages out of several hundred, I can live with that.  This book, rather than be a placeholder for the trilogy, moves the story in interesting, exciting, and unexpected ways and Ilook forward to the next book, hoping that its ending keeps the promise of its middle.	2003-10-08
US	53074803	R18UPFIBZJOIRL	0671795228	857271319	The Forms of Water	Books	4	11	11	N	N	slow but wonderfully human	The water in this book is in the form of a reservoir-not a river, not an ocean.  That should warn the reader not to expect quick flowing action or \\"big\\" momentous events or epic characters.  This is a quiet, slow-moving work and it deals in small eddies and ripples.  The plot, such as it is, focuses on Brendan, a former monk dying of cancer who wants to see his boyhood home one more time before he dies, or at least, see what he can of it since most of it has been covered over by the reservoir which forced his mother and father (now dead, as are his brother and sister-in-law) off their land.  At the start of this journey, we are introduced to the other surviving members of the clan, ranging in age from teens to middle-aged, all of whom are barely holding on to themselves, and are not doing much holding on to each other.  All of them, for various reasons, undertake the same physical journey as Brendan and it gives nothing away to the reader to say they eventually all end up in the same spot.  <BR> The journeys are clearly more personal and metaphysical than geographical, as is where they end up, both when they all meet and later.  Though there is nice, neat symmetry (and a bit of contrivance but since it's the only one we can give it to her) in getting all of them together, the book itself does not tie itself up anywhere near as neatly with regard to the characters or the plot.  There are unintended consequences, surprising decisions (ones that surprise even those that make them), poor decisions, misunderstandings, revelations. A few of the characters are sketchy and one or two too easily drawn in broad, one-note strokes (though even these are given by the end a more full, if still cursory, interpretation) but none of the characters at any point ever acts like anything less than a real character and the family dynamics are never less than messy (in other words-also real). <BR> What we see here are the after-effects:  the after-effects of a community drowned for \\"progress\\", the after-effects of isolating oneself from family and the world entire, the after-effects of death (children brought up by grandparents when their own parents die in a car accident), of witnessing death en masse (several characters were involved in WWII) as well as intimately (one character acts as the caregiver for a dying family member), the after-effects of separation and absence.  Some of it is clearly drawn for us, at other times we have to fill in the blanks, and sometimes the blanks are filled in for us but not until the end.  It is a subtle work of metaphor and connections lightly but tightly drawn.  <BR>It is not a page-turner.  It is slow.  It is quiet.  It is sad at times, funny at times, but always human, always real.	2003-09-22
US	53074803	R3LPMW6P9W1KEC	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	3	2	3	N	N	solid overall but disappoints, especially toward the end	After reading so many superlatives about this novel, I have to admit to being disappointed once I finished it.  It isn't a bad work at all, but I didn't find it to be the superior work of fiction I had been led to expect.  Yes, he pulls off the voice of an autistic main character and remains pretty consistent in doing so, but since the voice itself is basically a reporter's voice, free of emotion and introspection and evaluation, I'm not quite sure why this is considered such a feat.  And besides, I'd seen it done as well decades earlier in Flowers for Algernon.  The plot is slim: the main character decides to investigate the death of the neighbor's dog and in so doing learns some shocking (to him, but not I would say to the reader) truths about his family and eventually takes an \\"epic\\" (again, more to him than the reader I would say) journey.  As I mentioned, there isn't much to the plot that surprises, though it is mildly interesting and manages to keep the character before us in varying degrees of distress and tension.  Unfortunately, those varying degrees include going over the top once or twice toward the end, where characters sacrifice real person behavior in service of plot movement.  The main character himself is nicely fleshed out despite the lack of introspection and the objective voice; the author isn't afraid to have him be unlikable at times.  The father is probably the other best realized character, though he fades out a bit just when I would have liked to have seen more of him.  The mother I thought was too sketchily and easily drawn, and what should have been some complex changes in her character are skimmed over far too glibly.  What works best is the contrast between that steady objective voice and the descriptions of what other characters are saying or doing.  Since, however, the author sometimes plays this hand too much or too obviously, it's a good thing the book is as slim as it is.  As it is, because so much of the weakness of the book lies inits last quarter or so, the overall reading experience is colored more negatively than the work probably deserves.  If you can finish it in a sitting (pretty easy to do), it holds up better than if you spread it over a few days, since you'll find your last few nights' reading inferior writing in comparison to the first few.	2003-09-22
US	53074803	R3W4GFRW2UXNUB	0743464826	827645186	Chasing Shakespeares: A Novel	Books	1	7	10	N	N	found very little to like about this one	I had high hopes for this book-Shakespeare as a major focus, academia as a major setting, a plot that called up memories of Possession by A.S. Byatt, one of my favorite works.  Unfortunately, the book fell far short, and would have even had my expectations been a lot lower.<BR>It is, of course, unfair to hold it up to the high standards of Possession, so I'll just be quick and kind and say despite surface similarities, neither the plotting nor the style come close to matching that of Byatt's work.  That said, how does it fare on its own?  Still not so hot.<BR> The characterization is weak-the rich, spoiled female lead speaks more like the concept of a rich, spoiled girl than a real person and it would be hard to come up with too many times where the supposed academic male main character acts as an academic would.  Too often common sense behavior or just plain normal behavior is replaced with \\"the characters need to do this for sake of plot\\" behavior, something you can overlook once or twice but not as often as happens here.  <BR> The plot itself, trying to trace the authenticity of a letter allegedly written by Shakespeare where he denies authorship (which leads into a broader journey to determine the authorship question) starts off with the reader having to suspend a lot of disbelief and continues in that vein throughout.  Again, once or twice is fine, but eventually disbelief weighs a bit too heavily.<BR> As to the literary mystery, well, since the author says in a preface that some of the material is wrong, the reader is already pre-disposed to not care too much since he/she knows the author has \\"cheated\\" and stacked the deck somewhat by putting false information into the characters' mouths or hands.  The literary history itself comes in too many name/place/date-filled chunks so that the reader is more mystified than made curious or enlightened.  And too often the characters seemed to leap on tenuous links and take them immediately as \\"proof\\".<BR> As the book went on I found I cared little about the authorship question and less about the two main characters.  Uninterested in the plot, unconcerned about the characters, all that was left was the style, which while serviceable couldn't overcome the major weaknesses.  By the end, I admit to skimming just to see what happened.  If this plot interests you and you haven `t read Possession, do so.  If it interests you and you have read Possession, read it again.  But this one I just can't recommend.	2003-09-22
US	53074803	R2AYE4MNMBP9S7	0618334661	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market	Books	3	12	14	N	N	solid but disappoints after Fast Food Nation	When looking at the title of Schlossers newest work, ones first response has to be how did he manage to cover sex, drugs, and cheap labor all in a single book?(some might even say he couldnt have covered their own personal experience with all in a single book).  The answer, as one might have assumed, is simplesketchily.  A look at Americas underground economy, the editing begins immediately with the decision to limit such an analysis to these three gargantuan topicsclearly theres a lot more going on in the shadow economy-- just ask the folks at RIAA.<BR>  Any one of these topics would have been enough for an entire book, so if Schlosser is to be criticized for skimming through the information (which he does), its hard to see how, once the original decision for the book was made, he could have done otherwise.  The look at cheap labor, for instance, is only a few dozen pages.  The section on drugs is really only focused on marijuana and the laws surrounding it, and even these are occasionally tossed out more as lists than in any sort of more reflective analysis.  The section on pornography is longer, which might lead you to think its more in depth, but just as with the drug section, Schlosser narrows his field and focuses more on a single pivotal figure in the development of pornography as a mainstream business.  Its general history, modernization, feminization, incorporation, etc. are mentioned, but all too briefly.  Finally, anyone who has read any recent lengthy article on any of these topics will probably not find much (beyond the individual figures themselves) new here.  Even the context of the underground economy is not particularly original, as all three are oftentimes analyzed in just that context in their own right (how many articles on pot does one see that doesnt mention the estimated amount of money spent on growing or consuming it?).  And that context is weakened somewhat by the section on pornography.  After all,when The Greatest Hits of Nina Hartley is being distributed daily by AOL-Time-Warner or the Marriot and Larry Flint is running for governor of California, just how underground is this business?<BR> Thats the bad.  The good, and there is a lot of it, is just what one would expect from the author of Fast Food Nation.  The prose is highly readable and extremely lucid.  The research is well-documented, effective, clearly explained, and (mostly) seamlessly interwoven into the stories.  And the personal stories (a man sentenced to life for being a middle-man in a pot deal, the long-time attempt of the federal government to indict porn purveyor Reuban Sturman, along with others) lend a sense of humanity, realism, and intimacy to the discussion, which all too often remains on the abstract level in most analysesso many people in prison, blah blah blah.  Schlosser rifles off the statistics as well, but he grounds them in the stories of real people, and that is what makes this book at least somewhat effective, despite its sketchy nature.<BR>          Anyone coming to this from Fast Food Nation is probably bound to be disappointed and one wishes his publisher had convinced him (or agreed to allow him) to do a single book on each topic.  Anyone not coming to it with preconceived high standards set by the author himself, and just looking for a readable, quick, informative look at each and any of these could do a lot worse.	2003-09-09
US	53074803	R1H9ZFTQS4A3PX	0345447069	545444148	Walking to Canterbury: A Modern Journey Through Chaucer's Medieval England	Books	3	5	8	N	N	preferred the sections on the past	I'll state up front that I am not a religious person, and I suppose as well not very spiritualistic in the sense that much of this book seems to refer to it.  So I am perhaps not the best audience and therefore not the best reviewer.  I picked this up mostly because the Chaucer aspect of it interested me and I'll confess to some disappointment at how little reference there was to Chaucer and his work.  There were a lot of quoted sections, but I was hoping for more connections between his centuries-old tale and today's life.  I was also put off somewhat by the speech of many of those Ellis ran into, which just didn't ring true to me.  I have no problem with a writer removing the various \\"umms\\", \\"uhhs\\", and \\"huh's\\" that one has to assume were part of any conversation, but too many of these people spoke far too eloquently.  I can overlook that flaw more readily in a fiction novel, but in a non-fiction work it makes me wonder what else the author has modified; it adds a small but constant feeling of mistrust.  Beyond that, I didn't find much of interest in his present-day journey.  Some of his encounters were pleasant enough, but none particularly riveting or moving, and at times I thought he tried too hard to make them feel so to the reader.  His frequent swoops into the past, however, were far more interesting and enjoyable as he relates a slew of obscure information about Chaucer's time, ranging from table fare and manners to monastic rules.  These passages are nicely woven into the text and I wouldn't have minded more of them.  In fact, to be brutally honest, I could have done with just them.  Others, however, clearly were moved by his own personal pilgrimage, so as I stated, perhaps I'm just the wrong audience.  If you're picking this up for Chaucer material, be prepared to be disappointed. If you want information on Chaucer's time, you won't be disappointed but you might be better served skimming.  If, on the other hand, journeys of personal spiritual redemption are what you're looking for, I'll leave it to the other reviewers to give you a more refined and fair sense of whether or not you'll find it here.	2003-09-08
US	53074803	RW14A2YWPH3VV	0765304368	505704893	Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom	Books	4	2	4	N	N	enjoyable quick read	Much of what is here is not particularly original--we've seen lots of these concepts before--backing yourself up with clones and &quot;memory dumps&quot; in case of death, putting oneself on ice for awhile to see what the future holds or &quot;deadheading&quot;, a fully-integrated, real-time information network one accesses through implants, body modification, and so on.  What is original, however, and what makes this rise above a mediocre Gibson/Stephenson derivative is its setting-Disney World and its ending, which I won't go into for obvious reasons but which, suffice to say, makes the reader call into questions somewhat much of the previous action.  <BR>   This is a slim book, but focused and so while the author sacrifices a lot of the background information one often gets in futuristic novels (how did this society come about, what is happening out in the larger world beyond the characters, what cool things are out there that my characters aren't using personally?), it allows him to have fully developed characters despite the lack of lengthy plot.  While some might bemoan not seeing more of the society, I thought the length was just about perfect-any longer and it might have fallen into the trap of taking itself too seriously and robbing itself of much of its humor, which despite much of the dark action remains consistently wry.  The first chapter or two is somewhat hard going-a lot is thrown at the reader in terms of jargon, unclear societal and technological references, and time jumps a bit, but past that point the reader settles in for a smooth, fast-paced ride with a lot of laughs and some sharp turns-appropriately enough for a book set where it is.	2003-09-08
US	53074803	R3Q0NLGJ5OAY3L	0345451260	850295054	Househusband	Books	1	2	4	N	N	only finished it to please someone else	Banal language, clichd situations, insufferably well-mannered children, unrealistic scenes and dialogue, weak characters, and recipes you can do at home while you read the book.  There just wasn't anything redeemable about this book.  At no point was I invested in the main character, who stays at home to care for his daughter while his wife works, or any of the subplots, such as the dissolving marriage next door (would he and his sexy neighbor sleep together?  Would the husband and he fight?  I just didn't care).  At no point did I like the main character (despite his seemingly unerring way with wine, food, and parenting).  There were too many eye-rolling scenes, such as the women bending down at the playground and intensely asking his daughter if \\"everything was ok\\" (twice!) because, gasp, she was there alone with an adult male.  What century is this?  Please--as a stay-at-home dad I don't ever get even a strange glance let alone a whisper or \\"intervention\\" when I take my own child alone to the playground during the day.  Perhaps it has something to do with the three or four other men there with their kids by themselves.  And there were too many rescued dinners, too many domestic squabbles using stiff dialogue and trite phrases we've all seen from bad movies on the Lifetime channel.  <BR>I'm sure there is a funny, insightful novel/non-fiction book out there about the trials of being a stay-at-home dad; this wasn't it.	2003-09-08
US	53074803	R1J3EYJSZV2JKV	1573229881	329938494	The Russian Debutante's Handbook	Books	4	6	6	N	N	language mostly overcomes the flaws	Vladimir Girshkin, a Russian Jewish immigrant careens for various complex reasons (much having to do with attempts to make money) between the high-class homes of New York City, the tight confines of his bureaucratic office in the Dept. of Immigration, a Miami hotel room shared with a drug dealer (and thats his good side), and a penthouse suite inhabited by another immigrant and a fan.  And thats even before he heads to Prava, where he shifts from mob headquarters in Prava to various literary cafes and in clubs as he becomes in series or simultaneously a pyramid schemer, a mob lieutenant, an motivational speaker, a lover, and a poet.  As one might expect, the book is a bit of a mix.<BR>  The language, especially in the beginning, is inspired and comic with strange twists and turns of simile and idiom.  The characters as well are inspired, especially the side characters such as the Fan Man and the Drug Dealer, who are painted in such broad funny strokes that they threaten to overshadow the more passive Girshkin.  It is this passivity, and a desire to break out of it, that leads the main character into all the above mentioned places, and if the author strains a bit here and there to get him there, its mostly well worth the trip.  <BR>The pace is unevenit mostly sustains itself throughout the book but there is a too-long section set in New York that bogs down the first half a bit, though things perk up wonderfully upon his arrival in Prava, and the ending spirals a bit out of the authors control feeling at times too rushed and at other times too slow, while the epilogue is just anti-climatic.  As mentioned, the characters are broadly drawn, more cartoons than attempts at realistic characters, and if you dont like that sort of thing, you wont like this book.  Plot events too are beyond the believable at times, which fits the whole tone and tenor of the book but again, if youre the sort of person that will throw a book down yelling but nobody would do that!, then best to choose another novel.  Mostly, though, its the language that makes this book worth a read.  I found myself laughing out loud sometimes and chuckling a lot, less at the situations than the language and the somewhat twisted insights (some purposeful some not) into American society made by the main character.  Its a flawed book, certainly, and disappoints somewhat at the close, but overall a worthy, run read.	2003-09-08
US	53074803	R19E0E84R6PPXO	0399149864	919064525	Pattern Recognition	Books	3	5	6	N	N	good start but disappointingly plays out	In Pattern Recognition, Gibson is a lot closer to home than usual, at least on the surface.  The setting, both time and place, are present-day, well-known locales-fairly mundane territory for Gibson.  On a deeper level, the book shares much of the same thematic content and tone as his earlier works.  As one might expect, he cast a sharply analytic eye to mass consumerism, modern technology's effect on society, globalism, marketing, corporate amorality, etc.  They carry no less weight, are no less spot-on and thought-provoking for not being dressed up in their usual sci-fi garb.  One could do worse than use this book as a text in a college course on the modern consumer.<BR>  The main character is a \\"cool-finder\\", which sounds more science fiction than it is (witness recent articles in major news weeklies on the topic), who specializes in an intuitive grasp of whether or not a logo will \\"work\\".  She also has a virulent allergy to various corporate symbols which plays a major role in the plot, despite which it is nicely understated as social commentary.  A major subplot is Cayce's attempt to find the maker of the \\"footage\\", a strange series of film footage being released to the internet.  Nobody knows what it is, who is doing it, where it takes place, how it is transmitted, or how it is meant to be viewed (in other words, it's received as many David Lynch films are).  None of this prevents a world-wide cult following, many of whose adherents swap detailed analyses of the footage in chat rooms.  Cayce is hired to find the origin of the footage and must choose between her employer's corporate motivations and her own, which are clearly less profit-oriented.  Much of the book focuses on her journey in fits and starts to the scene of the footage, though a constant undercurrent is a subplot involving the supposed death of her father, a former CIA member who disappeared Sept. 11 and is presumed dead.<BR> The tone varies from comic to acidic to academic, but maintains throughout all the variety a subtly melancholic atmosphere that stays with the reader no matter what is happening on the page.  The two mysteries are efficiently set up and drawn out, but I found myself caring less and less about their resolution as the book went on.  The language is typical Gibson, lyrical at times, sparse at others, clear always.  The critical eye roves insightfully over society.  But in the end, I found the book disappointing, especially in the last third when it seemed to veer a bit off-direction and more into the stuff of more melodramatic and mundane bestselling novels of the average person accidentally entwined with foreign mafia.  Overall, a mixed recommendation.  One small addition-if you do decide to pick it up, Jennifer Government (another mixed rec) would make a nice companion novel to read next, as they share many of the same positive and negative attributes.	2003-09-06
US	53074803	RQ46BGDHX4RHW	0385507593	548424525	Jennifer Government: A Novel	Books	3	10	12	N	N	a pleasant and fun read, if not overwhelmingly so	With Jennifer Government, Barry steps into the territory of better known traveler William Gibson-that of large multi-national amoral corporations, consumerism/marketing gone amok, personal technology's disorienting effects, etc.  It's a world grown familiar to us over the past decade or so, made so by Gibson and others, and this new foray into it bears up fine, if not spectacularly so, in comparison (Gibson's newest, Pattern Recognition, in fact makes a nice companion novel to read with or just after this one)<BR> By the time the novel takes place, the not-so-distant future, all facets of society, from entire countries to single individuals, have been suborned by large conglomerates such as Nike and the NRA.  Employees take as their last name their company name (thus John Nike), assassination becomes just another marketing tool, \\"street cred\\" is literally to die for, the police subcontract out their work into a bewildering array of contracts and sub-contracts, and the government, while it still exists, is about as powerful as your typical independent bookstore is in comparison to the Barnes and Noble that moved in around the corner.<BR> One of the main characters, Hack Nike, gets involved in the aforementioned assassination and the title character, on the scene at the time, makes it her mission to find him and then those more culpable.  The plot is fast-paced, the characters enjoyable, and as a whole the work makes for a pleasant read-laugh-out-loud funny a few times, wryly amusing most times, but with a nice edge to it throughout.  The pace does tend to bog down toward the end, the satire grows a bit heavy and tired, some contrivances of plot mar the last few chapters, and while the lack of background details allows for the quick pace, at times as a reader you wish he would have slowed down a bit to give us a more full vision of the world.  Then again, there is room for more of Jennifer, so perhaps we'll get a more fleshed out vision in a later book.  You won't beblown away by this book, and if you're one of those reader who does a chapter or two a night then you might be tempted to give it up toward the end, but stay with it; you'll surprise yourself by thinking of it now and then later on while watching a new commercial or reading another article on media consolidation.	2003-09-06
US	53074803	R1MSNSCEOSX0LU	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	5	41	45	N	N	a reasoned response to shrill attacks	I have to admit upfront that since this book dovetails so much with my own politics, it would be difficult to give it a low rating.  And as a long-time fan of Conason and a regular reader of his column, I went into this assuming I'd like it all the way.  Then again, I'm also a long-time fan of Delillo and I'd rate his newest book unreadable.  So maybe that five rating isn't quite as biased as it seems on the surface.<br />Bias, of course, is part of Conason's reason for writing this book and takes up an entire chapter in it--the old-time canard about the supposed left-wing bias in the media.  As he does to a large number of conservative myths, Conason pretty much lays to rest the idea that the media is dominated by liberals and their ideas.<br />One of the reasons for the high rating is the clarity with which the book is written and structured.  As with the media chapter, Conason structures his book around the most commonly heard complaints about liberals made by the right and devotes a single chapter to debunking each one.  Within each chapter, Conason eschews the shrill atmospherics of many of the more popular authors on the right, such as Ann Coulter or Sean Hannity--there is no name-calling, no denunciation of an entire group's sense of family or morality or patriotism.  Instead, Conason simply states the right's argument, then lays out the facts in opposition (and though I await the cross-checking I assume will come, I'm going to go out on a limb and predict that his footnotes will stand up far better under scrutiny than those of Coulter's).<br />  So, for instance, when someone like Bernard Goldberg accuses the media of labeling conservative politicians more often than liberal ones, Conason does what would seem self-evident to most of us and yet somehow eluded Goldberg--he goes to someone who has actually counted the number of times the label conservative was attached to a politician's name as opposed to the number of times liberal was.  As turns out to be the case in most of these situations, the facts directly contradict the original statement.  Conason doesn't call Goldberg an \\"idiot\\" as Bill O'Reilly recently did to Al Franken when Franken pointed out at a public forum that O'Reilly had more than once stated his earlier show had won a Peabody when it fact it hadn't, he doesn't accuse Goldberg of being a \\"traitor\\" as Coulter does to millions of democrats.  He simply gives Goldberg's accusation, the facts that disprove it, and lets the reader make the necessary judgment.  The same holds true as he moves through the other myths, such as: republicans care more about \\"family values\\", democrats are \\"anti-military\\", Bill Clinton was \\"soft\\" on terrorism.<br />  That sort of reasoned approach is (sadly) refreshing in the near-hysterical circus that has become political publishing.  And it allows the book to move along quickly, clearly, and effortlessly. The structure of the book allows you to either browse through a chapter at a time since each is independent, or, if you prefer the larger picture, to breeze through the entire book in a pretty quick period of time.<br />  George Bush takes a fair amount of shots in the book as Conason details much of what has already been written about Bush but all too often in out-of-the way media outlets-questions about his avoidance of Vietnam and of his whereabouts during the last year of his air guard duty, questions about his past failed businesses and the lucrative deals struck when he was involved with the Texas Rangers, and so on.  Conason doesn't focus simply on the past, however; he also casts a critical eye on Bush's doings as President nearly up to the present day.  As one might expect, a few others who don't come across very well in a book like this are Newt Gingrich, Trent Lott, Tom Delay, Rush Limbaugh, and the distressingly long list of republicans who ran on \\"family values\\" and the impeachment of Bill Clinton for his lack of \\"morality and integrity\\" but who themselves were eventually exposed to have had illicit affairs.  Here again, Conason displays restraint rare for this day and age, pointing out the obvious hypocrisy but without sounding himself self-righteous or dwelling overmuch on the details.  And he is careful to make the point that he is not saying democrats hold a lock on morality, noting this would be a difficult argument for the party which has Ted Kennedy and Bill Clinton as two of his best-known faces.<br />This is the sort of self-criticism so invisible in much of the chatter of the right's publishing and punditry class and truth be told, Conason could have done more of it with more detail in a few places.  But at least it's present here--that alone raises this book several notches above such clowning attempts at seriousness by the likes of Coulter and Hannity.<br />I give this book a five, but feel free to knock it down a notch based on my \\"liberal bias\\"--a four is still pretty good.ually exposed to have had illicit affairs.  Here again, Conason displays restraint rare for this day and age, pointing out the obvious hypocrisy but without sounding himself self-righteous or dwelling overmuch on the details.  And he is careful to make the point that he is not saying democrats hold a lock on morality, noting this would be a difficult argument for the party which has Ted Kennedy and Bill Clinton as two of his best-known faces.<BR>This is the sort of self-criticism so invisible in much of the chatter of the right's publishing and punditry class and truth be told, Conason could have done more of it with more detail in a few places.  But at least it's present here--that alone raises this book several notches above such clowning attempts at seriousness by the likes of Coulter and Hannity.  <BR>I give this book a five, but feel free to knock it down a notch based on my \\"liberal bias\\"--a four is still pretty good.	2003-08-29
US	53074803	R2PH338P07EJX0	0765305550	350643665	The Risen Empire (Succession)	Books	5	45	51	N	N	good science, even better fiction	In the far future, people wear nanotech uniforms that will each second reform themselves to the wearer's shape, pilots will &quot;fly&quot; vessels less than a millimeter in diameter, AI's will take over planet-wide information systems and devices and form a &quot;compound mind&quot;, and cultures will war with each to death and destruction.  All of this is semi-interesting in its own right and is handled extremely deftly in this work, but it still is standard science fiction.  But also in the future?  The dead will rule, empathy will be treated with drugs as a side-effect, and oh yes, one of the more interesting characters/narrators will be a house.  This is poetry.<BR>While there was once a time when I read mostly science fiction, I long ago moved into fantasy when looking for lighter reading and while I still dipped into the pool now and then, I never was impressed enough to wade back in fully, though I sometimes found things I liked quite a bit (Dan Simmons' Hyperion series for instance).  If I thought there were more books out there like this one, I'd throw on my goggles, suit, and fins and jump in for an extended stay.<BR>  As mentioned, the science part of Risen Empire is smoothly handled--the jargon never gets in the way, the devices themselves and their application are fascinating, and it's all tied so tightly into what's happening that you never feel lost or confused in a sea of technological jibber-jabber.  Even better than the science, though, is the human side of this novel.  The political premise, that one empire, ruled by the dead--eternals tightly tied to the emperor who alone can grant that immortality--is slowly stagnating and is starting to face internal dissent by some of the living is wonderful.   Politics and social analysis is given nearly as much space as the technology, and while some will find it mere digression slowing down the &quot;operatic&quot; parts of the space opera, I personally found it as or possibly more interesting.  Even better are the human relationships, the main one between a senator fighting the emperor back &quot;home&quot; and the starship captain fighting for the emperor on a light-years away where the Emperor's sister has been taken captive.<BR>Westerfeld cuts back and forth among the attempted rescue of the hostages, the political maneuvering back at the Empire, and flashback scenes that flesh out the main characters' individual histories as well as their relationship's history.  Again, some will be off-put by this structuring, wanting more &quot;action&quot;.  I think it heightened the suspense of the rescue mission, helped make the characters three-dimensional (all too rare in both science fiction and fantasy), and made for a more interesting and stimulating reading due to the fractured structure.  Subplots abound in the story beyond the main story--the hostage crisis that is the opening move in the new war between the Empire and its old enemy the Rix--who seek to &quot;seed&quot; artificial compound minds on industrialized worlds.  Along with the war, the reader is introduced to a possible mutiny attempt, a spurned love-interest, a secret that may or may not bring down the Empire, a Helsinki-syndrome in yet another hostage situation, a sentient house, and more.  All of them juggled nicely and neatly, even if all are not of the same story quality.  <BR>Very little is resolved at the end of this book, and if there's a complaint, it's that the book itself is pretty slim and so I wonder at the need to divide it into two as is seemingly going to be the case.  But that's a minor if annoying flaw, and it will not prevent me from picking up the second book as soon as it comes out.  After all, I want to see what happens to that house.	2003-08-29
US	53074803	R1OZIWXXR74PO9	1585674109	785631993	Creation	Books	4	6	6	N	N	give it time	It is easy to be put off by Creation in its early going.  The intrusive narrator is a bit too intrusive and the reader (this reader at least) quickly wearies of the tactic and begins to consider whether the story is worth putting up with the style.  Luckily, however, Govier soon leaves the authorial wonderings (&quot;is it because he goes north and off the map?  Has what happened  . . . been ripped from the record?&quot;)  behind and lets the two main characters, Audubon and Captain Bayfield, enfold us in their own personal stories and obsessions. Each of which in their own right is interesting enough, but it is the burgeoning relationship between the two of them, which is most captivating. <BR>Govier takes as her starting point a &quot;missing&quot; point of Audubon's recorded life--his journey to the coasts along Newfoundland and Labrador.  Here she imagines him meeting Bayfield, an English captain tasked with charting these same coasts.  Both men, therefore, share an impossible job:  Audubon to paint every North American bird, Bayfield to identify every island, every shoal, every inlet to make the waters safe for sailing.  This similarity by itself is of little interest, however--who wants to read a novel full of conversations about &quot;my job's harder than your job&quot;?  What drives the energy between the two men is not simply their shared determination to complete a monumental task, but how those tasks are in seemingly complete opposition to one another-after all, if Bayfield completes his navigation charts, allowing more men to sail freely through the northern waters, it only increases the likelihood of Audubon's chief fear--that he will never finish his work before his birds &quot;disappear&quot;, killed by men sailing Bayfield's safe routes. The two men do not shy from conflict over this, and Govier handles their conversations skillfully, affording both men the chance to state their beliefs and without letting either slide into too-easy clich or didacticism. <BR>As the two men move in and out of each other's circle, their watery paths crossing and criss-crossing periodically, we move back and forth through Audubon's past and present, bearing witness to his many false names and lives, the effect of his obsession on his wife and sons, his inability to see the true worth of Maria--the woman who has replaced his wife in his heart, his shame at his origins, the self-contradictory nature of his work (killing that which he worships so he might capture its wildness on paper), and his fear for the future--both his and the wild's. <BR>Through it all we are never left to forget for to long just what it his &quot;great work&quot; is--Govier brings us back again and again in superb detail to many of Audubon's specific paintings, reproduced in black and white for the novel.  Some readers might find it, in fact, a bit too much detail and the same could also be said of the engraving process described toward the end of the book.  These are minor complaints though and easily rectified by the reader who chooses to skim those same passages. <BR>If there is a general flaw, I would say that sometimes Govier overwrites in the sense that she gives the reader, either through narration or, often, internal monologue, too much of what she has already skillfully and more subtly communicated to us via dialogue or description/action; she should have trusted her writing more. The same is true I think for her ending, where she could have done without the epilogue (though I understand the need some feel to tidy up just what happens to historical figures, to place the evens of the work in the historical context). Again, though, it is a minor complaint and the book as a whole more than makes up for these small flaws. Though Audubon's story and inner voice dominates the work, one derives as much pleasure from the moments we spend in Bayfield's mind or in Maria's presence or even, despite how minor a role he plays, in conversation with Godwin, Audubon's pilot.  As mentioned earlier, the beginning of the book is somewhat trying, but the journey past that point is well worth it	2003-08-26
US	53074803	R3M0VY11K1TTCR	0312308922	742612976	The Minotaur Takes a Cigarette Break: A Novel	Books	4	5	8	N	N	a surprising pleasure	The surprise pleasure of this book is not because it was a pleasure--the premise/title alone promised that.  The surprise is how that pleasure is attained--in the hands of probably almost any other author, the story would have been more about the trials and tribulations of eternal life, would have given us the easy set pieces--memories of Theseus, of Daedalus, scenes of being weary with living so long, etc.  Instead, Sherrill gives us a work that could not be more mundanely human.  It is an illuminating and quiet work of character and community.  Eschewing the easy tricks he could have used means he has to work even  harder to make us care, which we do.  There is just enough reference to the main character's strangeness to never let you forget it; it adds a patina of sadness, humor, weariness to the basic slice-of-life scenes, embellishing them without overwhelming them, like a perfectly-spiced dish.  The low-income, communal worlds of both the restaurant and the trailer park are sharply and beautifully created, the conflicts firmly rooted in human relationships. The fear the Minotaur has that his life is spiraling toward one of his perpetual downward cycles is palpable throughout and transfers itself to the reader, so that you turn the pages hoping he is wrong, rooting for him in all his desires and ambitions.  The pace is slow but appropriately so.  The characters, except for the main one, mundane but lovingly so. And the minotaur, half-human, inarticulate, clumsy, is all of that and the opposite.  It may not be what you expect, but it's all the better for that.	2003-08-24
US	53074803	R2HIAXMOU6MY9G	0312300824	148345988	Signal & Noise: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	one of the better books this year	it's always a pleasure to jump into a book that decides to take on so much. In this case, the laying of the transatlantic cable, the Civil War, the sewage plight of London, the spiritualist fad, and then more personally, grief over the death of a child, failed marriages, falls from a height, and more.  There is a wealth of plot and an even greater wealth of character and Griesemer succeeds in handling it all with ease and aplomb.  The history and technological details are interesting in their own right, but they never overshadow the characters and their own stories.  Griesemer takes his time in this work and therefore everything that happens to these characters, everything that serves to make us laugh or moves us or surprises us is earned.  In such a large, sprawling work it would have been easy to have entire sections weaker than others, but that is not the case.  The book holds at a high level from beginning to end.  One of the best reads I've had this year.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R2BQ6P2EPKVUJR	0441010555	366597247	The Light Ages	Books	4	5	6	N	N	an atmospheric fantasy	Light Ages is far from light reading.  Anyone wanting a quick read or the typical multi-book fantasy focusing on a questing band of travelers beset by evil should look elsewhere.  Instead Macleod gives us a land more evoked than described, beautiful at times poetic prose, three-dimensional characters (including the \\"evil\\" ones), questions that aren't always neatly answered, and a pace that would be described as slow by many but which I found perfectly suited to the nature of the novel.  There is rebellion, both personal and societal; corruption, both personal and societal; and finally, frustratingly and (realistically) only after fits and starts, change both personal and societal.  What there is not is a lot of magic or spell-casting or simplistic conflict.  The magical aether which is the center of the Dickensian society and which has caused industrial stagnation (why progress industrially if magic can do a worse but still adequate job?), though at the core of much of the societal action and the more personal \\"mystery\\", serves more as a backdrop to what is after all a character-driven story of change and discovery.  MacLeod does not stint his secondary characters, all of whom are drawn with the same level of detail and interest as his main ones.  The plot will tug (though not drag) you along, but it will be the characters and the evocative descriptions of situations and settings that will keep you reading.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R1JC3EWXPNB1WC	1400033349	510315418	The Solace of Leaving Early	Books	3	14	17	N	N	flawed but worth a read	it's hard to fault an author for dialog that is adult, interesting, challenging, sincere, intellectual, and deep.  There's far too little of it in far too many books.  Unfortunately, in this one, there's just too much to be believable.  Too many characters speak too fluently of too many difficult and arcane subjects, not simply as if they are aware of or have read certain writings but as if they have studied them.  Repeatedly.  So much so that they have memorized them.  That said, it's still hard not to enjoy much of this and if it pulls you out of the novel now and then, it's not too painful a dislocation.  The same can be said of the mother-daughter relationships in the book, which cross over a bit into the too shrill or dysfunctional to completely buy.  By far the most damaging flaw is the ending, which without going into detail, has not been properly earned, though it easily could have been and while I seldom think a book should  be longer, the story and characters in this one were strong enough that I would have gladly allowed another 30-40 pages of development so the ending would be better earned.  Despite all these flaws, Kimmel has written a story that is engaging and moving, an examination of grief and personal growth that touches the reader in all sorts of ways, through all sorts of characters.  She has enough faith in herself and her story to allow her characters to be unlikable (and therefore all the more believable) at times and shows a deft ability across a range of character--young, old, male, female.  Prepared to be frustrated and disappointed, but also moved.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R2QN51KZW9PCZK	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	great premise but	The premise of this story is wonderful, and at times it comes close to pulling it off.  But just when you think it might, Parkhurst gives us one more contrived situation or one more over-the-top-cute glimpse of the main characters' relationship and you're left disappointed and hopeful once again.  The depiction of grief is dead-on, intense, emotional, painful to read at times it's so well-done. She should have trusted herself a bit more with it.  We don't need their relationship made so precious so we feel the loss; we would have felt it anyway.  Having the lost wife a mask-maker teetered on the edge of contrivance, slipped even closer when they became death masks.  Had she stopped there it could have been tolerable if too noticeable.  But she slips over the edge a few too many times with this particular aspect.  The same is true with the underground dog society and the final message from his wife.  I wanted to like this work so much, and she overcame herself so many times that I remained hopeful that by the end I would.  But unfortunately it proved too hard to ignore the contrivances.  Even so, I can't say the book isn't worth a read--there's much here to savor.  Read it, and prepared to be saddened by the work as well as its failed promise.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R2B8LF1YKMIQQT	1573222453	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	5	4	5	N	N	best book this past year	Set in Afghanistan, many will come to this work to &quot;learn&quot; something of that sad country so long ignored and so often now in the news.  Which is not so bad since at least they will be reading it.  But this book is so much more than its setting, though its setting is integral.  It is so much more than its politics, though its politics are essential.  It is so much more than &quot;Afghanistan&quot;, though without Afghanistan the work would not exist.  It is foreign in language at times, in metaphor some of the time, and in detail of situation almost all the time.  But at its core it is more deeply human than any book I've read this year.  Loss, grief, betrayal, honor, guilt, self-contempt, love, redemption--these cross nationalities and ethnicities and if anyone doubted that I challenge them to hold those same doubts after reading this novel.  Hosseini has fashioned his characters and situations into sharp drillpoints that bore inside the reader and leave him/her gasping in pain and pleasure.  The work is eloquently heart-breaking, the language and situations poignant and poetic.  Marred slightly by a few contrivances at the end, the novel more than overcomes those few flaws through the power of the language, the realism and fullness of the characters and their relationships and dialog, the aching pain of the plot situations.  The best book I've read this year.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R2U03DXORHN3BI	0375822739	176879219	The City of Ember: The First Book of Ember	Books	4	10	12	N	N	a good start	this falls neatly and admittedly a bit predictably into the dystopic-\\"our world is the only world\\" genre.  Characterization and world-creation is somewhat sparse, but detracts very little from what is an enjoyable quick read and one well-suited to young adult  The story moves along at a good pace and if you see some of the events coming from a while away, DuPrau throws in enough nice small touches so you don't really mind.  Nor do you mind the obvious opportunity for a sequel--if the characters are not deeply drawn, they are likable and interesting enough that it would be nice to see them develop further.  The book would also work for teachers as a nice companion piece to similar works, such as the Giver or Anthem.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R2UCOXS3ORKV5L	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	sad decline	this series, though a bit derivative, started off well and while it has had its stops and starts, it has generally been well-worth reading.  Sadly, this book fails even the  minimal standard of &quot;if it's in a series, you've gotta read it if only to know what happens&quot;.  So little of import happens here, and it's so painful to get to what little does, that it simply isn't worth it.  The book is preachy, talkative, dogmatic, repetitive, one-sided, and simplistic, with the &quot;arguments&quot; ridiculously stacked.  All of which possibly could have been forgiven if it weren't only those things, if you could  have been drawn in by strength of character or plot or ideas. But there are no new characters of interest introduced, the main characters have become in this book either uninteresting or unlikable, and the action (what little there is) is predictable and not particularly exciting.  Read a recap someplace of the few plot details you  might need for the next one, skip this one completely, and hope Goodkind writes the next one while awake.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R16218EPCN2THT	0385721420	120680919	Three Junes	Books	3	0	2	N	N	doesn't keep its promise	this is a quiet character-driven story with some fine moments in it and a structure that adds interest.  The release of details is mostly well-done, the depiction of grief and its aftermath especially well-done, family dynamics handled realistically, and each segment closes strongly.  Unfortunately, I found that by far the best moments come in the first section, and while not all of them are there, other good ones are too few and far between for me to have enjoyed or been captivated by the middle section, which left me all too impatient for the close by the time I reached the third and final segment, which veered a bit off the focus for me.  I'd recommend it for the first section alone, and then advise to at least try and skim through the rest rather than completely give up on it if you find yourself, like me, losing interest in section two.	2003-08-23
US	53074803	R1FHNO220LUISQ	0553103237	331407913	Ship of Destiny (Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	4	28	32	N	Y	Little fall-off from a high beginning	With so much being churned out in the way of epic fantasy, it's always a  pleasure to come across something original and unique.  I felt that way  about Hobb's Assassin books and wondered if she'd be able to maintain such  high standards in this latest trilogy.  While I don't believe she quite got  there (it is after all a pretty high bar she set herself), this series  certainly stands on its own as quality fantasy, and its final book is a  fitting conclusion (though one wonders if that word has been banned from  the genre). The basic storyline is both original and interesting, and she  manages to avoid the typical banalities of genre fiction.  Hobb creates  characters far more often than character types and then flings them out  into her world on their own or in various twos and threes. Best of all, her  characters are often conflicted over their motives and actions, allowing  for a depth of introspection seldom seen in the genre.  And nowhere is this  better done than in her main character Kennit, who alternately has the  reader pulling for his success and  hoping for his well-deserved  comeuppance.  It is a tightrope act she attempts with this character and I  at least would have to say she pulled it off.  It is tough enough to evoke  an emotional response in a genre where characters all too often barely  squeak into two dimensions, let alone three, but here Hobb swings for the  fence in an attempt to elicity a multiplicity of responses.    And she  connects fully.  Not only with Kennit, but with others as well.  It takes a  brave soul to attempt a character made out of wood; it takes an excellent  writer to make me care about that character. Is the final book as strong as  the first?  I personally don't think so but it doesn't tail off much.  Does  the book seem rushed toward the end as several readers have commented?  Without a doubt.  Some plotlines are all too neatly resolved (one of her  characters tries to make a distinction between &quot;coincidence&quot;and  &quot;destiny&quot;,  but I wasn't buying it myself) and some characters'  roles/personalities change a bit too abruptly, but in a work that spans  three good-sized novels and a dozen major characters, these turn out to be  minor complaints, far outshadowed by the quality of the story and  especially the characters.  She's two for two in series and I look forward  to her next work--I wouldn't even mind if it's another multi-book  &quot;epic&quot;.	2000-08-23
US	53074803	R2J47089ET8N1T	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Good first effort	There's so much to enjoy on the surface of Bee Season that I really wish I  could have given it a better rating.  The main character is interesting and  likable and the reader often finds him/herself drawn deep into her  thoughts.  Recollections of childhood images and actions are often right on  target.  There are some wonderfully written passages that just sweep you  along in their language and imagery.  And the overall vision--characters in  search of order/revelation holds the work tightly together in terms of  theme and imagery.  Maybe too tightly.  Too often I found myself thinking  that like her characters, Goldberg   had a hard time letting go of her own  desire for a patterned order.  Scenes, dialogue, plot points sometimes  seemed to have been created simply to fit within or draw attention to the  larger structure rather than as natural outhgrowths of the characters and  their actions--the author's hand a bit too visible as it connected the dots  and filled in the outline.  I also wish she had let her characters develop  a bit more slowly into their newer selves rather than rushing through some  of the changes, as well as broadened some of their characterization.     That said, as I mentioned earlier, there's a lot to enjoy in here.  You may  not find yourself eagerly turning pages or trying to finish it in a single  sitting, but you will find yourself rereading passages here and there so as  to spend more time with such good writing.  One expects unevenness in a  first novel and this is no exception, but much of it bodes well for the  next--I'll look forward to reading it.	2000-08-03
US	53074803	RAQBRSXOTN1OO	0441007325	204063184	King Kelson's Bride: A Novel of the Deryni	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Didn't quite reach the bar	It's been a long wait for this one, the last month of which I used to read the others in the series.  Now I sort of wish I hadn't done so.  While rereading refreshed some necessary character and plot points, along with  reminding me why I've so anticipated this novel, it also made me realize  how weak this novel is in comparison.  Not that it's bad; it just isn't as  good.      As one might imagine from the title, a large portion of the plot  deals with Kelson's search, sometimes willingly sometimes not, for a new  bride.  The other half of the book deals with the political problem of  Torenthi.  Neither of these, however, had the same driving urgency or  poignancy  of Kurtz's earlier novels.        Part of the problem, as often  happens in a series so large, is that we've seen much of this before:  the  Torenthi danger, the unwilling bride, attempted assassinations,  unrequited  love, deep compulsions of  betrayal set on humans, etc.  To overcome this  sense of  &quot;been there done that&quot;, Kurtz needed to to distract us  with the power of her characters or the dazzlement of her plotlines.   Unfortunately, neither was quite up to it.  None of the major good  characters reached the heroic or humorous proportions of their earlier  incarcations:  Duncan and Morgan, for instance,  were mere shadows of their  prior selves.  And none of the villains matched the depths of compelling  ugliness of Loris or the regents.  The good characters are models of good  behavior and logic, but not particularly rousing.  The evil characters are  evil, but  in a perfunctory fashion; they simply aren't fascinating enough.   I miss both extremes.      I also missed the sense of inner turmoil and  tragedy from previous works.  Jehanna could have played into part of this  (the inner turmoil), but her confusion/conversion happened too quickly to  suit me--a nod to a plot point rather than an exploration of character.   And Kelson's pining for Rothana, to be honest, got a bit tiresome.After  having suffered once more through the deaths of Rhy, Javan, Camber,  Allister, and so many other previous characters, and having watched so many  well-intentioned plans fall short of fruition, this novel simply didn't  move me, either in its personal characters or its larger political vision.     Is this a necessary novel?  Yes, it moves the characters and plot along.    It's well-written and decently plotted and it was a pleasure to rejoin  Kelson and to get a look at how the other half (the Torenthi) live.  And  maybe it's unfair to hold it up to the standards of the prior works.  But  Kurtz has only herself to blame.  She set the standard; here's hoping her  next one comes a bit closer.	2000-08-01
US	53074803	R1DOQNY4KWQK25	0670843024	285163435	A History of Reading	Books	5	8	8	N	N	a reader's read	the perfect meshing of message, messenger, and audience. Non-readers will put this book down by page 11 w/ a comment of &quot;boring&quot;.  To which the reader will reply with &quot;go back to the tv, but keep it down because I'm trying to read this.&quot;  Manguel ranges across a huge swath of history and geography, but always manages to find at the right time that moment of precise human detail where the reader goes &quot;that's me; that's me exactly!&quot;  A long and seeminly exhaustive book, one wishes at times he had gone even further--quoted another reader, talked more of Borges, yes, brought in some modern critical theory if only to humanize it as he does so well with his science-based discussions.  A fascinating journey where the reader gets to experience a sense of community and self-recognition, alongside the excitement of learning new knowledge	1997-03-24
