US	53070806	R341JTQ4RXZ3CC	4889960724	416168706	Remembering the Kana: The Hiragana / The Katakana	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very mixed, but still 4 stars	This book is actually two slim books bound into one volume.  The first is Remembering the Kana: the Hiragana, and the second is Remembering the Kana: the Katakana.  The customer images (photos at top) from Benjamin Mischler show both sides of the book so you get a feel for how it is bound.  I have the version with the cover he shows, and the ISBN is the one listed for this book.   <br /> <br />I give this volume mixed reviews, because the I would rate the two books it contains very differently.  First, an overview:  The book is laid out with the two sections back to back so that when you are reading one section the other is upside down.  This is a helpful layout because as you are flipping through the hiragana section you don't accidentally stray into the katakana section (and vice versa), so it's easier to keep the two syllabaries separate.  Each book has you learn the kana in a very specific order.  Each page contains one syllable, and the bottom of the page tells you what page you should go to next and what page you came from last.  Each of the two books is broken up into sections, with the instruction to do one section at a time, spending about a half hour on each section.  Each page has the romanji (English equivalent sound) on the outer edge of the page and the kana on the inner edge.  This allows you to flip through the book to test yourself, only seeing the romanji version, and then opening the book further to see the kana \\"answer.\\"  Another strong point of the book is that it shows examples of the kana written in a number of different fonts.  This helps you get a feel for different ways you might see the character written, and it also helps with understanding what aspects of the character are \\"essential.\\"  At the bottom of the page there are several words (usually two or three) using the characters you've already learned to help you test yourself on what you are supposed to know and to see the character in context.  The middle of the page includes a sketchof how to write the character, with the order of strokes, and a description of a memory device (a little story) to help you learn the character.  The quality of the memory devices is the main area where the two books differ, and I'll discuss this by section. <br /> <br />The Hiragana: For the Hiragana section the memory devices are often very elaborate, but memorable (think of the seven dwarfs being pursued by a wasp which flies down and grabs two of them).  Not all of the memory devices will necessarily work well for you, but once you've learned how the system works you can substitute your own memory devices.  There were several characters for which I just couldn't \\"get into\\" the memory device provided by the author, so I made up my own.  The order in which the individual characters are presented is very helpful, and the author makes use of similar elements of characters to help you remember them.    There is only very minimal coverage of dipthongs, plosives, voicing, and long vowels.  This is enough to get you started (e.g. understand that they exist), but not enough to really understand these topics. <br /> <br />The Katakana section: Note that this section is written by a different set of authors.  The katakana section is, in my opinion, pretty weak.  For many of the katakana the authors simply don't give a memory device.  Instead they rely on the similarity to the hiragana.  For some of the katakana this works nicely, as the katakana character is similar enough to the hiragana that it's easy to remember.  For others, this device fails miserably.  At times the authors rely on a sort of \\"intuitive\\" connection between the hiragana and katakana.  They say something like, if you move your hand as if you were writing the hiragana but substitute a slash here and straight lines for curved lines you will \\"automatically\\" get the katakana.  Sorry, but it doesn't work for me.  If this is your first introduction to the kana (and isn't that sort of the point of buying this book?) there's too much that isn't specified in this approach.  I ended up having to make up my own memory devices for all of these characters.  This is fine, but I wish they hadn't relied so much on the \\"you'll just figure it out\\" approach.  Also, in the katakana section there are several times when there are two characters that are essentially the same, except for slight variations in angles of lines or direction of the strokes.  For example, shi and tsu are almost identical, as are n and so.  The authors never mention this, though, so when you get to the second character of the set you think, \\"didn't I just study this??  Isn't this that other character?\\"  When you go back and compare them you can see the similarities and differences, but I think it would have been much more helpful for the authors to pair these characters and point out the differences so you could start out learning those characters by thinking of their differences.  Finally, in the katakana section there are a number of times when the example katakana words and phrases use characters you haven't learned yet if you are following the order specified in the book.  This is annoying and is just poor editing.   <br /> <br />In general the editing of the whole volume leaves something to be desired.  There are a number of minor typos in the English descriptions.  They aren't enough to interfere with your ability to read the text or to slow you down significantly, but they show sloppy editing.  Also, as was mentioned by another reader, the technique to remember the order of the syllabary is not helpful.  The author just has you sing the syllables in order.  There are better mnemonic devices out there (e.g. \\"Ah Kana Signs!  Take note how many you read well - n\\", from Henshall and Takagaki's book on learning hiragana and katakana).   <br /> <br />Despite these critiques, I am still giving this book four stars because I think the technique is very helpful in learning the kana, and the things the authors do well they do very well.  The layout of each page is fantastic, and the approach to learning is also very good.  I found the use of memory pictures to be very helpful.  The use of the story-pictures to aid memory is not intended to be a long term device.  As you use the kana more you stop thinking about the pictures and start just recognizing the syllables in context.  The story-pictures are very useful, though in the initial learning of each syllable.  In other words, while you are at the stage of needing to think about each character as you read a word, using the memory devices will bring the right syllable or character to mind.  It is this initial learning stage that is greatly aided by this book.  I don't think this approach becomes a crutch because as you use the characters more your mind automatically uses the simplest tool to help you retrieve the right sound or character.  Once you can recognize or write them by sight, the simplest tool is that immediate recall, without going through the picture.  As you get faster in reading and writing kana, you will find that for more commonly used characters, you no longer need the memory device, you just know them.  For more obscure characters you may need the device to jog your memory.  Once you are fluent with the characters, the memory devices will drop out of the picture.   <br /> <br />In addition to this book I would also recommend \\"A Guide to Learning Hiragana and Katakana: First steps to reading and writing Japanese\\" by Henshall and Takagaki.  This book is a nice complement, because it offers lots of space to practice individual characters (as a workbook) and it offers LOTS of examples for practice in reading and writing.  It also has better descriptions and examples and practice for the plosives, long vowels, dipthongs, and voicing.  This book helps solidify what you are learning in Remembering the Kana.  I think the two are a good pair.	2005-07-12
US	53070806	RHG7U7ZMXO23	1933092165	486221738	Audiofy Audiobook Chip Reader (Audiofy Audiobook Chip Solutions)	Books	1	21	22	N	N	Junk	This player is designed to play audiofy books on SD cards.  It will not play anything else (e.g. MP3s, etc).  The player itself is very lightweight and seems pretty cheaply made.  The buttons are not protected, so it's easy for it to turn itself on if it's rattling around in a backpack, etc.  My first complaint about the player was that it doesn't contain the features you are likely to need for language learning.  One of the big pluses of this player is that you can use it to listen to the Pimsleur language courses on book chips.  The problem is that it uses a non-traditional system of navigation buttons.  There is a \\"skip to the next track\\" button, a \\"skip to the previous track\\" button, a stop/play button, and an \\"information\\" button.  On the Pimsleur language chips each 30 minute lesson is a track.  So if you are listening to a lesson and decide you want to hear a phrase again or go back to some part of the lesson you can't just go backwards a short distance by \\"rewinding.\\"  Instead you have to use the information button which will tell you where on the track you are in time.  You can move to different positions, but it's a pretty clumsy system.  The only thing that makes this bearable is that if you stop (turn off) the player, when you turn it back on it automatically skips back several seconds.  So, in a pinch you can turn it off (hit stop), then hold down the play button to turn it back on.  It says \\"AUDIOFY\\" and then skips back several seconds so you can hear something again.  This isn't a very efficient or precise way of backing up in the lessons, and it also means that you keep hearing \\"AUDIOFY\\" all the time.      Also, I find that with the Pimsleur lessons it often takes me longer to repeat a sentence or phrase than is allowed on the recording.  This means that I usually start and stop a lot so I have the chance to produce the sentence myself before hearing the answer.  You can sometimes press the stop button briefly and it will function as a pause button.Sometimes when I do this, though, it turns itself off.  It's possible that I just got a bad unit (read on).       Most annoyingly, my player constantly turns itself off randomly (usually after less than 30 seconds of playing or immediately after I turn it on), or locks itself on with no sound, so I can't turn it off without removing the batteries!  I have not yet listened to a full half hour of a book chip and the player is so erratic it's driving me nuts!  I thought at first it was the cheap batteries shipped with the player, but it does this with standard name-brand batteries too.     The book chips contain the software for the player on the chip, so supposedly you can also use the book chips with certain other players (e.g. some but not all hardware running Palm OS), but when you do, you must use the Audiofy software to play the chip rather than an MP3 player.  This means that even if I try to use the book chips on my Palm I still only have the same limited number of functions.      I've also had a lot of difficulty getting the bookchips to work on a Palm Pilot.  I have a Tungsten T and a Tungsten T3 and haven't been able to get the book chips to work on either of them, despite being fairly \\"tech-savvy.\\"    My advice ... Don't buy the audiobook player and be hesitant about the Pimsleur bookchips.  If you know you have a device that can read the chips and you can live with the limited range of functions built into the software that plays the bookchips, you may be happy with the bookchips.  I hope that the manufacturers will build more functionality into the software for the bookchips.  If they do, this would be an excellent format to listen to Pimsleur programs.  At this point it fails to live up to its potential.    *** Added note at a later date: The company shipped me a new player.  The problem with turning off all the time was with my original player.  The new player doesn't do that, so at least I have a unit now that works the way it was designed but it still has the same basic design problems.  I was pleased that the company responded quickly to my request for help, by sending out a new player, but I'm still not impressed with the player design and function.	2005-07-12
US	53070806	R3RV3IA0Z3AMP8	0812020340	485873382	201 Turkish Verbs: Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses (201 Verbs Series)	Books	3	71	73	N	N	Don't get tricked into thinking you need this book ...	The 201 (or 501 or whatever) verbs books have been around for a long time and can be very useful, particularly for languages with a lot of irregular conjugations.  If you are a beginner and won't be able to study the language and need to be able to pull a verb out of a hat without knowing much about the language (including how to make a sentence with the verb you've chosen), this book is for you.  If, on the other hand, you are a beginning student of Turkish stocking up on all the books you might need to learn the language, there is one very important thing you should know.  All Turkish verbs are regular.  In other words, this book could be about 15 pages long - one page showing how to conjugate one verb and about 14 pages listing 200 other verbs that you can conjugate in exactly the same way.  If you understand vowel harmony (an important concept you should learn in the first week or so of studying Turkish) and you have a dictionary, you really don't need this book.  Go to the library and find this book.  Pick any verb - copy the page and you've got the whole book.  <br />I happily completed two years of college Turkish without ever referencing this book.  The existence of this book was actually one of the running jokes of my Turkish class!  Put your money toward a high quality Turkish dictionary instead.	2002-08-22
US	53070806	R1TXTTO3QF3WP7	0871131900	248732697	Night Train to Turkistan: Modern Adventures Along China's Ancient Silk Road (TRAVELER)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	It's all about the journey	Stevens provides a humorous recounting of a romp through Western China attempting to follow the trail of 1936 travelers Fleming an Maillart along the ancient Silk Road.  Night Train to Turkistan is entertaining for its quirky characters including infuriating bureaucrats, reluctant Chinese interpretor (Mark Salzman, author of Lying Awake and Iron and Silk), a six foot female athlete who draws a crowd of suitors and gawkers everywhere she goes, and proprietors of various roadside establishments.  <br />The four travelers are just outrageous and creative enough to actually make their way from Beijing to Kashgar and back, despite a multitude of bureaucrats that seems hellbent on prohibiting them from doing just that.  The book starts out with the quartet delivering skis to a national ski team in a country with no ski areas, in the hopes of obtaining a vaguely official-looking reference letter that might unlock some door somewhere.  It goes on from there.<br />This was a fairly quick read, and, as other reviewers have noted, it's not heavy on anthropological or historical insights.  But I don't think the intent of the book was to provide these insights.  This is a case where getting there is all the fun.  The book is all about the journey, and those who have attempted to journey through bureaucratic developing nations are likely to recognize the types of frustrations and seemingly inexplicable events and policies recounted here.  The book is all about crammed unheated buses and trains and low-flying planes and various other conveyances.  It's about imperfectly built Russian hotels and incomprehensible bus stations and greasy roadside noodle stands and scheduled group pit stops and increasingly implausible explanations from government workers, desk clerks, and pencil pushers.  This all sounds like an incredible bore, but Stevens' entertaining descriptions take you there and hold your attention to the end.  If you are looking for an anthropological or historical treatise on Western China, you will be happier looking elsewhere.  But as a humorous recounting of a journey through Western China, this one fills the bill.  It is primarily from the perspective of a traveler, and the insights are limited, but the observations of a traveler are well worth the price of the book.  <br />As an aside, several of the other reviewers suggest that this book was set in 1989 or around the time of the protests in Tiananmen Square.  In fact the book was published in 1988, and the journey occurred in 1986, both prior to the protests in Tiananmen Square in the spring of 1989.  It is unfair to suggest that the author was minimizing the events of that spring, as they had not yet occurred.	2002-04-21
US	53070806	RZAWDM358E93M	0060294019	229501755	Jakarta Missing	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Reflective and entertaining - Third Culture Kids will enjoy!	I really enjoyed reading Jakarta Missing.  The story focuses on the life of a girl named Dakar who grew up in East Africa and who has been transplanted to North Dakota.  Her recollections of her life in Africa provide insights into what it is like for a kid to live in and be a part of several cultures at once.  Third Culture Kids (those growing up in a culture different from their parents' \\"home\\" culture) will definitely identify with Dakar.  <br />The book also reflects a lot on several significant issues.  Dakar and her family struggle with finding the balance between safety and living joyfully unrestrained by fear.  In other words, how much of the joy of life are you willing to give up in order to feel safe?  Different members of the family strike this balance in different ways and with different results.  Those who struggle with taking risks will find an empathic friend in Dakar.<br />Dakar's family also struggles with balancing concern and responsibility for the well-being of all of humanity with concern for the more mundane but also important issues of \\"being there\\" for those you love.  Is it more important to save the world or to be there to watch your kid's basketball game?  A related issue is how women and girls balance taking care of others vs taking care of themselves.  This issue is played out in various family members and female friends in the book, and the various characters resolved the issue differently.  <br />There is a lot to think about in this book, but it's so engaging and fun to read that I wasn't left feeling heavy or weighed down by it.  Dakar's stories about growing up in Africa are fun to read and different from your average book about a teenager in America.  As a newcomer she struggles to fit in but still be herself.  Anyone who has ever been in that position will be able to relate to Dakar's feelings.<br />Overall a great book.  It kept me turning the pages long after I should have put it down and gone off to do other chores.	2002-02-04
US	53070806	RL46FD7EXEG9E	0689840101	953632429	Colors (Slide 'N' Seek, 1)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A big favorite of my 20 month old	This book is a big hit in our home because it gives toddlers the chance to &quot;do it myself.&quot;  This colorful board book has pages with animal drawings that slide out.  Each page has a color with a printed texture (e.g. a red page with darker red dots on it).  At the top or side of the page is a solid tab that allows the child to pull out a picture of an animal with that same texture on it (e.g. the red page has a ladybug hidden in it like the one printed on the cover of the book).  <br />This book is a favorite because the sliding mechanism is very well made, so my daughter is generally able to work the pages herself with little or no help from me.  She recognizes the colors and textures on each page and names the animal before she pulls the picture out and then really enjoys demonstrating that she was right.  All of the pages are very sturdy and well made, so it's hard for little fingers to damage it.<br />Excellent book!!	2001-12-28
US	53070806	RE790EDHFUKGY	0689841116	799567992	The Silver Crown (Aladdin Fantasy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent fantasy!	This is the story of a girl who wakes up on her birthday to find a silver crown on her pillow.  Within hours she is running for her life, pursued by unknown forces for unknown reasons.  All she knows is that somehow she is a queen, and when she wears the crown she is able to think much more clearly and she hears music that no one else hears.  Within the next few days she faces fire, accidents, attempts on her life, and persistent followers.  She discovers that people are not always what they seem, and meets a large cast of interesting people, including evil powers bent on destroying the world.  She acquires several companions who aid her on her journey.  This is classic fantasy with a number of creative twists.  It is a page turner and will keep you wondering until the end.  They name &quot;Hieronymous&quot; will forever send chills down your spine.<br />This edition of the book has two endings - the original British ending and the American ending.  I would advise skipping the last chapter and reading the British ending first (it's the one added on at the end of the book).  The British ending is shorter, but in my mind more satisfying because it doesn't insist on tying up all the loose ends.  It leaves some of the mystery of the book.  The American ending has something of this feel: &quot;So John Boy, why did such-and-such happen?&quot;  &quot;Well, I'm glad you asked ....&quot;  I prefer to leave some pieces unexplained.  If you read the British ending and are unsatisfied, then go back and read the American ending.	2001-12-21
US	53070806	R109C1N8AIAXQS	0789448459	237771379	My Potty Book for Girls (Potty Books)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Bright, colorful, and fascinating!!	My 18 month old loves this book!  The photos are bright and colorful and clear.  I looked through about six or seven books before settling on this one, and this was the clear winner.  The text is simple and appropriate for young children (unlike several other books I looked at) and the beautiful photography and layout captures my daughter's attention.  The book has photos of happy girls of various ethnicities wearing diapers, exploring potty chairs, sitting on potty chairs, unrolling toilet paper, drying their hands after washing, and finally wearing big girl panties.  The board book format is sturdy and the book has a cute shape.  The only drawback to this book that I can see is that it has pictures of several girls exploring the potty chairs by putting them on their heads and standing in them, and there is probably a possibility that a suggestible child might try this out, so watch out.  Overall a beautiful, lively, and cheerful book - a clear winner over all the other potty books I looked at!  Highly recommended!	2001-10-17
US	53070806	R36OZHK0RHI36Y	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Triumph over adversity	Melinda is a high school freshman with a secret.  A traumatic event at a keg party the summer before she started high school led her to call the police, leaving her an outcast at her new school, and abandoned by all of her friends.  This book paints a beautiful picture of Melinda's journey through increasing silence and isolation into embracing life and finding the courage to speak.  This journey is illustrated by her experiences with art.  As a psychologist I felt this book really rang true in its description of one person's journey of finding resolution and making peace with herself and other people after a traumatic event.  The author did a beautiful job of balancing  the sense of &quot;craziness&quot; and fear associated with trauma while still presenting Melinda as a character the reader can relate to.  <br />Excellent.  Highly recommended, particularly for teens who have gone through tough things and feel alone in their experiences.	2001-10-17
US	53070806	R15XPPPRE2R1CH	0440415365	457252494	Anna of Byzantium (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Mixed feelings	Anna of Byzantium tells the story of the rising and falling fortunes of Anna Comnena, a princess of the Byzantine Empire, and heir to the throne.  The plot includes friendship, betrayal, power struggles, an assassination attempt, love, manipulation, and sibling rivalry, and is a fascinating glimpse into the political and family turmoil that Anna may have been caught up in.  <br />There were a lot of things about this book that were wonderful.  I really enjoyed the author taking on the challenge of writing a book about the Byzantine Empire.  I don't know of any other children's or teens' authors who have used this setting, and it's a unique and interesting glimpse into life in this era.  The plot twists kept me reading to see how everything would turn out.<br />I had very mixed feelings about the characterization, though.  Some of the characters were really well drawn and elaborated, and I really appreciated the author's ability to portray the ways that both positive and negative character traits could be intertwined in the same person.  On the other hand, though, there were several characters that were key to the plot but were not well characterized at all.  For example, John, Anna's younger brother, appears as a pretty flat, inept, selfish, weak, and spoiled character throughout most of the book, and there doesn't seem to be a lot of nuancing of his character.  At one point in the book however (won't give too much away) his behavior seems pretty strongly contradictory to this, and the historical note at the end of the book describes him in a way that seems inconsistent with both presentations of him.  In other words, he seems almost like three different characters in three different times of his life, and there doesn't seem to be any attempt to harmonize these three or portray characteristics that would tie them together or demonstrate gradual development that might have led in that direction eventually.  Instead, it feels like he fairly abruptly changed several times, and the reason for these changes are unclear.  This is the case for several other characters in the book as well.  This left me confused about why some of the events in the plot turned out the way they did.  It seemed that the character traits of the key players that might have directed them to act as they did had not been sufficiently developed to support some of their actions.  I was left asking, &quot;but why did he do that?&quot; or &quot;what is his motivation here?&quot; and commenting, &quot;it doesn't seem like he would have done that.&quot;  It seemed that a more thorough and complex characterization of the mixed traits of those characters might have helped the plot fit together more cleanly.<br />Overall an excellent book and a fascinating look at court life in Byzantium.  The unique and interesting aspects of this book definitely override its faults, and I can recommend it to anyone looking for a unique read.	2001-10-09
US	53070806	R3RSBLNDHFT570	0152020683	28356414	Half Magic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Old fashioned fun!	Edgar Eager's story features four siblings who find a &quot;nickel&quot; that turns out to be a magic talisman.  This token grants wishes but only &quot;halfway.&quot;  This is a clever idea leads to a lot of humor and confusion as the children wish for things that only half come true.  There are several mishaps with the coin, which takes them on a lot of interesting adventures.  The illustrations in the book are cute and funny, and add to the old-fashioned feel.  This book was first published in 1954 and has endured as a favorite because it's that good.  The story has a feel that is very similar to E. Nesbit's books.  Overall an excellent read!	2001-10-09
US	53070806	R2EN1XAV1FADJ0	0689835604	619690502	Where Is Baby's Belly Button? A Lift-the-Flap Book	Books	5	196	201	N	Y	Great fun for baby and parents!	This is a nice sturdy book with colorful drawings of babies with some part of their body hidden.  Each page asks, &quot;Where is baby's ...?&quot;  Toddlers delight in lifting the flaps to find the hidden pictures.  The pictures are bright and cute with eye-catching fabric and wallpaper patterns.  A very attractive book, and perfect for that stage when toddlers become fascinated with their belly buttons!  My 17 month old has really enjoyed this book.  It can be very helpful in getting kids to name body parts, and it's fun for both the baby and the parents to read.  Highly recommended.	2001-10-09
US	53070806	R28MJ7H3YUHCX5	0471282952	876293796	Essentials of WAIS-III Assessment (Essentials of Psychological Assessment Series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Clear and user-friendly yet sophisticated	This is a gem of a book. I assigned it for the grad students in my intellectual assessment course and both they and I found it to be very helpful and easy to use. The format of the book makes it very user-friendly and unintimidating. There are a lot of boxes and highlighted text that help the reader to find what he or she is looking for quickly. This book covers administration, scoring, and interpretation and provides numerous helpful tips for beginners on common errors. The approach to interpretation provided in this book is a pared-down and slightly modified version of the method described in Kaufman's book Intelligent Testing with the WISC-III (an excellent book with a great deal of information on interpreting the WISC-III). Kaufman and Lichtenberger take the guess work and estimation out of interpreting the significance of various scores. This approach is based in the scientific method (assume nonsignificance unless you have a compelling reason, based on the test data, to believe that the variations in scores on the test protocol are unlikely to have resulted by chance). This approach is very helpful in giving students an understanding of how much variation in test scores can result from test error, and brings the &quot;science&quot; back into test interpretation. There are a lot of numbers to crunch using this method, and in some ways the clarity of the system can encourage users to become mechanistic, but I feel that the emphasis on systematic and defensible interpretation is well worth this risk. Kaufman's approach has become the basis of the standard described in the WAIS manual and calculated on the WAIS-III record form, and this book is an excellent way to learn it and the rationale behind it. The book is also an excellent reference for practitioners. I find myself pulling it off my shelf very frequently as I supervise student assessments, and it's loaned out to various students a lot of the time. The book provides pages of useful tables, some of which arein the WAIS-III manual, but many of which are not. One caution is that the shared abilities tables provided here are based on theory rather than data, so it's important to take these with a grain of salt. Also there are a couple of points in the &quot;decision tree&quot; where it's not entirely clear in some situations what the reader is to do. This is not a common problem, but one that is not really adequately addressed in my opinion.<BR>Overall a truly excellent book that raises the standard for WAIS-III interpretation above that seen in many practitioners. This is a treasure chest of information at a great price.	2001-09-20
US	53070806	R185PED82LR610	0141306947	589758537	Go and Come Back	Books	4	17	17	N	N	See things from a different perspective	This excellent book is the story of two American anthropologists who went to live with a tribe in Peru.  One of the main characters is a young girl who is trying to raise an adopted baby and becomes friends with the anthropologists.  The story shows all of the cultural differences and misunderstandings that arose between the anthropologists and the people of the village because they had different values and ideas about how people should behave. The book does a good job of showing how people of one culture can try to do things that they see as polite and kind and can be perceived by people of a different culture as stingy or mean.  It is challenging to readers because it helps them think about what is important to them and how that is expressed in what they do.  It helped me see ways that my actions are not really consistent with what I say is important to me.  It also gave me a good sense of some of the basic difficulties and joys of living in a different culture.  <br />One caution: if you would be offended by open talk about sex, this book is not for you.  It shows a culture in which sex is discussed openly and people tell children more about it than in the U.S.	2001-09-17
US	53070806	RGINOVA9A3T5K	0784707928	42310785	Noah's Ark, Hide-Away Bks (Hide-Away Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bright, cute, and fun!	This durable board book has bright colorful drawings of the animals on the ark (along with Noah and family) and the pages slide open to reveal hidden animals.  For example, the first page says &quot;What's hopping to the ark?&quot;  The page slides apart to show a picture of kangaroos.  The illustrations are very attractive and cute, and they hold the attention of my toddler. She loves to open the pages herself to see what's hiding inside.  The sliding mechanism in this book works better than the ones in similar books I've seen.  My 16 month old toddler is able to open the sliding pages herself and with a little bit of &quot;steering assistance&quot; from me (helping her line the page up right) she can close the pages too.  The sliding pages add extra interest and keep her entertained for longer than a regular book.<br />The text is simple but cute.  <br />Overall a great book for home or to take to church.  Don't let the lack of a photo of the cover here scare you off.  It's really cute and worth the price.	2001-09-04
US	53070806	R3JGF6OY0CXZC9	0029257506	786875274	Are Those Kids Yours?: American Families With Children Adopted From Other Countries	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Thought-provoking and insightful!	Register's thoughtful discussion of what international adoption can mean to a family and to a child should be a part of the reading list for any family or individual considering adopting internationally.  This is not a &quot;how-to&quot; book, and Register specifically recommends that if you are looking for information about the details of adopting from any specific country you should find up-to-date sources that focus on those issues.  This book focuses on the life-long implications of international adoption, and helps families think through the meaning of their decisions.  Register adresses such issues as these: What does it mean to be an interracial family?  What have been the experiences of families who suddenly become the target of comments and stares?  What is the experience of a non-adopted sibling when a child of another race is adopted into the family?  What are the ethical implications of wealthy (by global standards) Western families adopting children from poorer nations?  How can potential parents avoid and detect situations which promote exploitation or coercion of birthparents?  How can we help our children develop a meaningful cultural identity without personal experience of part of their cultural heritage?  What does it mean to a child to be &quot;rootless&quot; without identifiable genetic heritage?  How can our personal experiences as adoptive families help to make a difference in the lives of those siblings and cousins and crib-mates of our child who are still living in orphanages and/or on the street in their home country?<br />Despite the discussion of some difficult and sobering topics, Register's book comes across as very positive toward international adoption.  Register herself has two daughters adopted from Korea, and she shares many of her experiences and the joys that she has had in raising them.<br />Many of the anecdotes in this book feature children adopted from Korea, but the issues apply to children from a variety of cultural backgrounds.  The Korean context is particularly helpful in that the children who were Korean war orphans are now adults, and Register was able to interview adoptees of a variety of ages, including those adults, and the insights of these older adoptees about their experiences and what they wish their adoptive parents had and had not done is particularly helpful.<br />Overall a very thought-provoking book, and one that will help potential adoptive parents think beyond paperwork, furnishing a room, and getting passports.  Highly recommended.	2001-09-04
US	53070806	RX1MAW3BMNFCO	0789429187	118749659	Wild Animals (Touch and Feel)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Beautiful photos and unique textures	All of the DK (publisher) books have gorgeous photographs, and this one is no exception.  The photos are sharp and bright and the animals are highlighted against a white background, which makes them look like they are about to jump off the page.  The textures in this book are really unique too.  So many of the touch and feel books have all the same textures (fur, sandpaper, etc).  This book has really unique and interesting textures (e.g. a cool, rubbery, soft, smooth surface for the dolphin - it really feels like the skin of sea mammals I have touched; and a bumpy shiny surface for the lizard skin).  My 14 month old daughter really enjoys feeling all the different textures and &quot;reading&quot; this book to herself.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-03
US	53070806	RL5QA4GVINY8F	0689813473	983903320	Busy Bugs Lazy Bugs (Busy Bugs Board Books)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Colorful humorous drawings of &quot;bugs&quot;	This is one of a series of books about &quot;bugs&quot; by David Carter.  Carter's &quot;bugs&quot; are imaginative and fanciful.  If you are looking for a book to teach your child about different types of bugs, this is not it.  The bugs in this book are not &quot;real&quot; bugs, they are cartoon caricatures of bugs (sometimes barely recognizable as &quot;bugs&quot;) showing a number of different feelings and states (happy, sad, hungry, busy, crazy, cold, etc).  With that in mind, I highly recommend this book.  My 14 month old daughter loves the bright colorful pictures, and the big eyes on all the bugs capture her attention.  This is a favorite in our house, and it's fun for Mom and Dad to read to her because it's humorous (check out why one of the bugs is not hungry).  The words are minimal but rhythmic and work well for those who have kids who want to turn the pages themselves, because there's not a big storyline to miss if they turn several pages at once - each page stands alone.  <br />Overall a fun, colorful, attractive book.	2001-07-02
US	53070806	R18TGK3YSFBF22	0689807481	972551814	Good Dog, Carl : A Classic Board Book	Books	4	36	42	N	N	Beautiful book but not for babies	This is a gorgeous book with a very humorous storyline told almost all in pictures (no words).  The basic plot is that a dog is left at home to take care of a baby all day, and the dog and baby have adventures in the house (the dog takes good care of the baby).  It's a book that parents and children will both enjoy, and it gives the opportunity for the child to tell the story.  I like the fact that the story is told entirely without words because it gives the opportunity for parent and child to discuss what's happening in the story.  The story itself is very funny, and appealing<br />Having said that, I must also say that although this is one of my favorite books, it's still been a flop with my 14 month old.  I anticipate that sometime soon she will start to enjoy it, but up to this point she has not been interested.  I think there are probably a couple of reasons for this.  First, the pictures are not colorful enough to grab the attention of a baby, though the dog-and-baby subject is likely to be more attractive to her within the next few months.  Secondly, the drawings are pretty detailed - with this book you want to spend a few moments on each page.  For a patient toddler that would probably be fine.  Mine prefers to be \\"in charge\\" of reading and flip through the pages herself, and unless something grabs her attention she flips through the pages quickly and tosses the book.  <br />I hate to discourage anyone from buying this book because I love it so much.  I guess my bottom line on this book would be this: you and your child will probably eventually both love this book, and if you are looking at the long haul it's a great investment because it's a great book.  If you are buying for a very young child, though (under about 15 mos) and are on a limited budget, you might do better to buy a couple of very colorful books now and then buy this one a little later.	2001-07-02
US	53070806	R1LA0XJ9N85RJ0	0786803908	733727325	Big	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bold and bright, early introduction to contemporary art	This is a bright and exciting book (it's on our list for the grandparents as a &quot;not-before-bedtime&quot; book) with fun pictures for toddlers.  Our toddler loves to look through the pictures and although she is WAY too young to think about reading, the words are also very appealing and large and attract her attention too.<br />The drawings are bright and bold and show children of diverse skin colors (including green and blue) in outlandish clothes that are way too big for them.  The underlying message is one of diversity, but it's not sappy or pushy.  <br />Keith Haring was one of the great artists of our time, and it's tremendous to have a children's book that introduces children to his art in a casual way.  This is not a &quot;let's study the art of great artists&quot; book, it's just a children's book filled with great illustrations that happen to be by a great artist.  I suspect that many of the children who are enjoying this book as toddlers or preschoolers may have one of those tremendous &quot;ah-ha&quot; moments five or ten years from now when they end up on a school field trip to an art gallery and think, &quot;I KNOW that artist.&quot;	2001-07-01
US	53070806	R3COC53T9IAX1X	0689834349	177370489	Hippos Go Berserk!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilarious tale - Mom loves it as much as baby	Hippos Go Beserk is a humorous story of what happens when a lonely hippo decides to call some friends for a party.  The text is beautifully rhythmic and melodic and the pictures are bright and cute.  The story involves counting up to nine and then backwards from nine to one again.  The theme had potential to be monotonous as it involves a series of pages with one more (or less) hippo on each page, but Boynton did a good job of varying the illustrations and what the hippos are doing on each page so it is enjoyable and humorous.  <br />This is one of my 14 month old daughter's very favorite books.  She carries it around the house with her.  She LOVES the middle page (the climax of the story), where &quot;all the hippos go beserk&quot; and has caught on to the change in the rhythm of the story and the change in my voice when I read it.  She thumbs through the book and when she gets to that page she shrieks and grins and bounces up and down.  Overall it's well-written and well-illustrated.<br />I have also found that this is one of the few toddler books that &quot;speaks to&quot; me personally.  I really enjoy the cute story and the rhythm of the prose, but I also find that when I read the story it leaves me reflective.  Parenthood can be lonely at times, and I'm inspired by the lonely hippo at the beginning of the story who takes the initiative to call some friends and throw a party.  Whenever I read this book I am left feeling more lighthearted and inspired to call a few friends myself.	2001-07-01
US	53070806	R1GVYX9XEPFL05	0843179899	803686355	Who's Bugging You? (Sliding Surprise Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun book, but the mechanics don't work very well	This series of books (all by Charles Reasoner) is a lot of fun.  Each book has pages that split in the middle and slide open, revealing a hidden picture on a page hidden inside.  On each page there is a question - for this book they start with, &quot;Which bug ...?&quot; (i.e. which bug does such and such) and the answer is a picture of the bug inside.  The illustrations are colorful and bold and the bugs are cute.<br />The books in this series are some of the favorite books of our friends' daughter (toddler).  Our daughter (also a toddler) loves the pictures but the mechanics of the sliding pages are stiff, so she can't slide the pictures in and out herself, and that makes her very frustrated!!  This is a great book if you have a toddler who likes to have you read to him/her, and it's also attractive enough for them to read on their own without sliding the pages (though they don't get to see the bugs that way).  If your toddler wants to be independent and &quot;read&quot; to him or herself, though, it could be frustrating.  It's a very creative idea, and I still rate it at 4 stars because it really is a fun book to read.  I think, though, that it doesn't work as well as was originally intended.	2001-07-01
US	53070806	R2QE42I5823VW4	0679830707	351496991	Zoo Animals (A Chunky Book(R))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A favorite of my 14 month old	This book is one of my 14 month old daughter's favorite books.  It is small enough and light enough that she can carry it around easily in one hand and &quot;read&quot; it to herself, which I think is a big part of the appeal.  The photos of animals are attractive and colorful and many are high contrast which makes it even more appealing to her.  A number of the photos also include baby animals with their parents.  The text is minimal - just the names of each animal, one per page.  A nice basic book of animal photos, in a format that makes it very accessible for toddlers.	2001-07-01
US	53070806	R1GFWORYY9M5AR	0847818500	301251972	Casa California: Spanish-Style Houses from Santa Barbara to San Clemente	Books	5	67	68	N	N	Gorgeous book!	This is a gorgeous book full of color photos and description of Spanish Colonial Revival style architecture in Southern California.  The beginning of the book provides a review of the style with information on stylistic influences and historical setting.  As another reviewer mentioned, the homes in this book are mostly huge, and it really would have been nice to see some well-done modest homes (i.e. the 1000 or 1600 square foot variety).  Nevertheless, this is the ONLY full-color book I have been able to find on this style, and I do think it provides helpful elements for use in smaller houses, but one needs to be  imaginative to find them.  If you are living in a smaller house, you can't just lift a whole room out of this book.  For example, the cover photo features a huge staircase and fountain.  It is very difficult (and would be inappropriate) to duplicate this type of thing in a smaller home, but I might notice that the decorative tile on the stair risers and the saltillo tile on the steps could be used on the steps up to my own modest front porch, for example.  We have used a number of individual elements from this book in our own home, and we've used the photos to get an idea of what &quot;works&quot; and what doesn't in this style.  I do really wish, though, that there was a companion book that showed how this style can be used to advantage in smaller homes, since the vast majority of homes of this style are in the 1000-2000 square foot range.<br />Overall a beautiful and helpful book, and I do think it was worth the money.	2001-06-26
US	53070806	R1OI99G4DCCV7	0789436507	109215049	Baby Faces	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A big favorite	For some reason babies seem to be FASCINATED with pictures of other babies.  This book provides a lot of cute baby faces with various expressions for your little one to look at.  My 14 month old loves it - particularly the &quot;baby peeks&quot; page, which always starts up a peek-a-boo game.  The text is not terribly exciting - just labels for the babies and their expressions.  The photography is quite good, though, and that makes this an attractive book.	2001-06-26
US	53070806	R3835NBZ009J7I	1558585362	623510960	The Rainbow Fish	Books	2	26	34	N	N	Disturbing	Yes, I know some will feel that those who dislike this book are analyzing it to death, and if you are one who dislikes analyzing, you may really enjoy this book, and you can skip the rest of my review.  Having said that, though, I found the story line for this book to be very disturbing.  On the surface the story is about sharing, and indeed that message is conveyed.  However, several other themes come across as well, and I think they are more prominent.  First, if you refuse to give up what makes you special or beautiful when someone asks for it you will be rejected.  Second, one is loved and valued for what one has to give away to other people.  Third, it's not OK to stand out in some way - everyone must be the same.<br />Despite the disturbing (to me) themes, I found the book to be beautifully illustrated.  We have the bath book version, and the illustrations are much more beautiful and complex than your average bath book.  The colors in the illustrations are all within the same color family, though (adjacent on the color wheel for you artists) - purple, blue, green.  This color scheme is appealing to me, but my daughter finds it boring, and doesn't really like to look at this book.<br />I don't read the story to my daughter because the themes concern me, but if your child likes the colors and pictures it's a nice book just to look at together.  We &quot;read&quot; the things in the pictures rather than the story (&quot;Look it's a pretty fish with shiny scales&quot;  &quot;Where's the seashell?&quot; etc) and that works fine.  I wouldn't buy the book for myself, but I didn't throw it away when someone gave it to me either.<br />Bottom line for you fish lovers:  What happens when you take away a fish's scales?  Answer: It dies.	2001-06-17
US	53070806	R3MKTOQV3VRJBA	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Captivating, but with some serious flaws	Philip Pullman has written a trilogy that is challenging and exciting and thought-provoking.  The first two books in the trilogy were excellent and left me waiting for more.  This one was somewhat of a disappointment.  There was certainly a rich plot in this book, but Pullman himself seemed to get in the way of the story more than he did in the previous two books.  I have really enjoyed his creative and critical view on religion and it's use and abuse in the previous two books - I've found that I was left reflecting on these topics for a long while after I finished each of those books.  The key to both of those books, though, was that Pullman had a certain amount of restraint in his writing that challenged the reader to think for him or herself and come to his or her own conclusions about issues.  This book felt to me like he suddenly lost the ability to speak through metaphor and had to beat us over the head with his opinion.  It was kind of like those books in which a character has to say something like, &quot;Gee Sally, we sure have learned a lot about X today.  I learned that ....&quot;  The closest parallel that I have for this is Upton Sinclair's book, The Jungle.  The Jungle spends about 300 pages spinning out a story that really convinces you that there's something significant you need to think about, and then in the last dozen or so pages it degenerates into a meeting where the author has to preach to you his views.  Duh ... we got it.  In reading this trilogy I felt like Pullman respected and trusted my intelligence and ability to think for myself as a reader all until the last chapter or so of the last book, at which point he lost faith and couldn't hold himself back from just telling me flat out his views.  It felt disloyal to Lyra and disloyal to me, and for me it broke the &quot;frame&quot; of the fantasy he had set up.  Bad writing after so much good writing.  I LOVED the first two books and much of this one, but show me some respect, please.	2001-06-17
US	53070806	R2A3USN8RY6T96	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hilarious, though not a lot of substance	It's true.  This is a &quot;laugh-out-loud&quot; book.  It's light and fun reading - perfect for summer vacation by the pool (or home sick in bed). I had a ball reading it.  It definitely does not have a lot of depth, and the plot is quite predictable (and there's not really a lot of it) but it is fun.  If you are looking for a &quot;deep&quot; book, go elsewhere, but if you are looking for something light to take your mind off ... well, anything ... or just to make you giggle, this is definitely it. <br />The British teenaged-girl vocabulary adds a lot to the book - there's something even more quirky about this girl for the American reader because she keeps saying all these bizarre and funny things (full-frontal snoggging???).  <br />It's a very quick read.  Perfect for those of you who have a book report due the day after tomorrow and don't want to lose too much of your free time (or brain cells) reading the book! (or for those of us who just to take a break from heavy reading and have a giggle-fest).	2001-06-17
US	53070806	R3RVX0RTZ5DM5L	1582460167	345079478	Busy Penguins (A Busy Book)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Beautiful photographs - very engaging	This book was highly recommended to me by a clerk at a small children's bookstore who told me that for some reason toddlers seem to find it very captivating.  I bought it for my daughter for her first birthday, and she loves it.  The photographs are beautiful and there's something about the penguins that seems to really grab my daughter's attention.  At 14 months she seeks out this book and will &quot;read&quot; it to herself.  I agree with the reviewer below who said that the &quot;penguins pooping&quot; page is a real attention-grabber for the toilet training set, and though it could be gross, something about the fact that it's a penguin who's pooping is strangely charming and humorous (if you can stomach that type of thing!).  Overall five stars for a book that my daughter and I both love - a great thing for a parent who has to read it over and over.	2001-06-17
US	53070806	RD5VYKHWTI7F1	0933140460	841236349	Space for God: Study and Practice of Spirituality and Prayer (Bible Way)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Draws me gently into prayer	This is a tremendous resource.  I am currently on my second copy of this book.  Unlike many spirituality books, this one is not in any way preachy or directive.  Postema provides artwork, hymns, reflections, scriptures, and excerpts from various sources, all of which can serve as a jumping off point for the reader's own reflections and prayer.  Rather than telling us, &quot;You should pray more&quot; he gives us materials that draw us into wanting to pray.  <br />I particularly recommend this book for anyone who is feeling hesitant about God or the church or who has become jaded toward a lot of what they hear from the church and Christians, but who is not quite ready to throw in the towel.  This is a beautiful gentle book that will help open your heart to God if you let it.  I have found that despite a great deal of hesitation about many &quot;things religious,&quot; I can usually only read a page or two of this book at a time, because as I begin to read I feel a tremendous desire to pray and connect with God, and I abandon this book in favor of prayer.  I think this is as it was intended to be.<br />The formatting of the book is very helpful.  It has very large margins and lots of space around the quotes, which facilitates writing and/or journaling directly in the book.  I've found it very helpful to write my reflections into the book as I go along, and have found there to be ample room for this.  I also like the way there is a lot of art interspersed with text.  There are times when I just can't read &quot;religious&quot; text, but can look at a Van Gogh painting and allow God to speak to me through it.<br />Overall, I highly recommend this to both those who are struggling but drawn to God, and those who are deeply committed to the daily practice of the Christian faith.	2001-06-17
US	53070806	RZCAE9SCYMEYG	0824525035	713037432	The Rule of Benedict: Insights for the Ages (Crossroad Spiritual Legacy Series)	Books	5	77	80	N	N	Makes the Rule accessible to beginners	I am relatively new to Benedictine spirituality, and have found this commentary to be extremely helpful in thinking about how the Rule applies to my life as a person in a secular setting in the 21st century.  The text is divided into small chunks with commentary between, with dates for when to read each piece.  It's helpful to have the dates so that if you are connected to a monastic community you are reading in sync with the rest of the community.  I have also found that reading small portions in the way it is set out here is helpful to pace my reading so I take the time to consider the text and the insights offered.<br />Chittister does an excellent job of providing reflections on the Rule that are understandable and applicable to people in a broad variety of life situations.  Often when I first read a section of the text I think, &quot;How can this possibly be relevant to me?  What does it mean in my situation?&quot; (e.g. sections on the content of particular prayers or where the monks should sleep, etc).  Chittister describes and explains these texts in ways that give me a lot to think about and make them relevant to me personally.  She tends to extract and explain some of the underlying issues (e.g. what would Benedict have been thinking to write this?  What would it have meant in the original context) and then makes ties to the modern world.  All in all an excellent commentary for both beginners and more experienced monastics.	2001-06-17
US	53070806	R1Y6UWZEVPIJOJ	0689822030	757564161	Dinosaur's Binkit	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Lots of fun but still calming enough for bedtime	This book is a great combination of an &quot;activity&quot; book and a bedtime book.  The lift-the-flap pages and the &quot;touch-and-feel&quot; pages are cute and fun.  The flaps are creative - not the run of the mill predictable stuff under the flap.  The rhythm of the story is calming and takes well to a quiet soothing voice, which makes this a &quot;real&quot; bedtime book.  We have a number of other lift-the-flap or &quot;touch-and-feel&quot; books that we don't read before bed because they get my 14 month old daughter too excited, but this one has just the right balance of fun and calm.  My daughter also loves the &quot;teeth&quot; in the toothbrushing page, which I consider a plus as we are teaching her to brush her teeth.  This is one of my daughter's very favorite books, and she often goes to find it to &quot;read&quot; it to herself.  Highly recommended.  We will need to buy another copy soon, after only a few months, because our copy is read so often it is starting to wear out (not a comment about the quality of the book - just shows how often it is read).	2001-06-17
US	53070806	R2ONQFTQPH40X6	0679777466	25336446	Pawn in Frankincense: Book Four in the Legendary Lymond Chronicles	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Great story but hideously annoying style!	I've never read a book that made me more conscious of the author.  The plot was creative and intricate, the setting was fascinating and well described, and the characters were well developed, but oh, the prose!  The style felt needlessly pretentious and overwrought, and I found myself becoming so annoyed with the author's intrusion into the story that I could only read it in small doses.  I found myself mentally begging the author to get out of the way.  I debated whether to read the rest of the series, because I found this book to be quite fascinating, but I decided it wasn't worth the annoyance.	2000-12-06
US	53070806	R2Q1CRMW6QOG1K	0029174422	913599849	Rethinking Psychiatry: From Cultural Category to Personal Experience	Books	5	22	25	N	N	A thought-provoking analysis	Dr. Kleinman offers an insightful perspective on the concept of psychiatric illness and healing that integrates contributions from many disciplines.  This is a beautiful example of thinking &quot;outside the  box&quot; that challenges traditional psychiatry while remaining respectful  of the methodology of both psychiatry and anthropology.  Dr. Kleinman  elucidates a meaningful middle ground between the criticisms of the  &quot;anti-psychiatrists&quot; such as Szasz and Goffman, and the  traditional psychiatric hierarchy.  This is an enlightening work which will  appeal to those who find themselves frustrated with the limitations of  traditional diagnostic categories and conceptualizations of mental illness  as residing solely within the individual, and who are searching for ways to  understand illness experiences as a social phenomenon.  <br />I first read  this book about four years ago, and continue to come back to it.  The ideas  expressed here have significantly impacted my understanding of my own field  and have greatly influenced the direction of my subsequent research and  teaching.	2000-04-01
