US	53073605	R1FIZAV5QDKTUM	0671526723	577832154	Audrey Hepburn's Neck	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Complex, like the unwrapping of an onion	Late in the novel, Toshi notices that his mother is now old, and that the skin of her hands looks like onionskin.  This is an excellent metaphor for this interesting and revealing novel. <br /> <br />When I was a kid, I remember reading a book about a little boy having to buy tofu from a particular seller in a Tokyo that ceased to exist long before the events of this novel, but are wonderfully invoked by the Hokkaido in which Toshi is raised, a place where everyone is looking out for a little boy, where every shopkeeper has a specific task that they seem to have done forever and will do until they die (as Toshi's father keeps a noodle shop until the day he dies).   <br /> <br />The key contrast of the book is to me between that world and the Tokyo to which Toshi moves, not so much between the ex-pat Americans and the Japanese.  Toshi is serious, he is talented, and he is attractive to both American women and men, and he draws that from his Hokkaido background and the unusual circumstances of his fractured parents, the mystery of which he finally unravels at the novel's end.  As a late 20th century Japanese man, he is highly adaptable, and can function in the high-tech neon-signed world of a Tokyo gone mad with riots against American rice and the possibility that Brooke Shields will marry the Crown Prince, but clearly something is missing as well and his reliance on his friend Paul--and Paul's willingness to accept his straightness despite being in love with him--is one of those unusual relationships that simply is, and cannot be explained.  So too the fact that he survives the affair with the strange and dangerous Jane and somehow falls in with the more nurturing Lucy.  Toshi is lucky, but he earns his luck by being a good friend, a good artist and a soulful son.   <br /> <br />The mystery of the book, why his mother nurtured his love for things American in a Japan gone wild with anti-Americanism, is solved in the end, along with the mystery of why she left his father and whether she loved his father.  The unnamed Kuril Islands in the distance beyond his father's noodle shop on the beach, along with the rest of the natural scenery of Hokkaido become characters in the novel as much as the people.	2005-10-07
US	53073605	R3QZS2OL2PXFJY	1400097355	70096960	Gonzalez and Daughter Trucking Co.: A Road Novel with Literary License	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Superbly realized fantasy	I expected something of a magical realism novel, but this book surprised me with its very down-to-earth dual tales of a women's prison that was a refuge and the constantly moving truck that was in its way a prison.   <br /> <br />Libertad won't reveal her crime to her co-prisoners in the Mexican women's prison in Mexicali.  The prison itself is a contrast to U.S. prisons because money talks and thus the prisons are far more free.  She begins, however, to open up when she creates a Library Club, where she entertains the inmates, guards and the warden with tales of Mudflap Girl.  Her alter ego, orphaned Mudflap Girl is raised by her father in the back of a truck from birth.  We watch her grow up and seek her freedom from her increasingly controlling father, paranoid of capture by agents of the Mexican government from offenses occurring many years and many changes of government ago.  Meanwhile, Libertad begins to learn that the prison is for her the home and the family she never knew.  Mudflap Girl eventually commits the crime that led Libertad to her prison term, and the only way out for everyone is for her new family to right the wrongs that brought her there.  Eventually, a happy ending is shared by all. <br /> <br />Escandon's ability to create so many believable, in the terms of a novel like this, characters and so many worthwhile relationships is what made this novel come alive for me.  Nothing is wasted, and every character has a place in the universe she creates.  The only negative was that I thought the use of CB lingo was a bit over the top.  But the characters of the Warden and the three Vietnamese refugee/prisoners and the relationship between Mudflap Girl and Martin more than made up for that.  Highly recommended.	2005-09-27
US	53073605	R1RVTKJIAX3ZFI	0385720610	479991747	The Good People of New York	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fascinating collection of interrelated stories	Nissen's minimalist writing technique and the steady evolution of the book from the point of view of Edwin Anderson, Nebraska lawyer in the big city to his first wife, Roz Rosenzweig, New York Jew, and finally to their daughter Miranda, seems to have confused some reviewers, but it captivated this one. <br /> <br />The book is meant to make you supply the gaps between the stories and the points of view with your own thoughts and conjectures.  Roz and Edwin meet cute, marry cute, become fish out of water in each's milieu, conceive Miranda and try to raise her in the big city.  Edwin's disappointment with his own career choices eventually break up the marriage, around the time Miranda is first starting at a ritzy summer camp, and Miranda becomes a precocious latchkey kid.  We follow her first three romances, one with a boy at camp, one with the son of her orthodontist, who breaks Roz's heart a second time, and finally with her English teacher in her senior year.  And finally we end with her in college in Brown, her mother happy with a man she met at the library and her friend Darrin living in New York watching over them. <br /> <br />I don't see Nissen as having some great literary point here, but rather exploring issues about love and marriage and growing up, both by children and adults, in an indirect and wonderfully written way.  The book in may ways gives you what you bring to it, requiring the reader to supply his or her own thoughts and experiences to understand its themes.  It is an easy book to read and a difficult book to understand.  I enjoyed it immensely.	2005-09-24
US	53073605	R2OH9H5KC7W7SE	0805075658	191392341	Doing It	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Funny, well-written but a bit over the top	This book provides from a first person point of view the sexual awakenings of three high school boys.  Dino is the popular one, who lusts after the equally popular Jackie, who spurns him for her much older boyfriend.  When she finally relents and starts snogging him, she can't help but lead him to the point of doing it, and then disappoints him.  Dino instead loses his virginity with the younger, but more experienced Zoe, who plays him like a violin before ultimately destroying him for two-timing Jackie.  Ben is the quiet one that all the girls are interested in, but he never asks anyone out because he's secretly been seduced by Miss Young, his drama teacher, who provides him sex but cannot provide him the experience of a girl friend he really longs for.  When he finally finds a way to his freedom, she disappears with no consequences, which seems unrealistic in this day and age (compare Thisbe Nissen's The Good People of New York, where the girl's affair with her teacher occurs about 20 years ago).  Jonathan is the only one attracted to someone he actually likes as a person, but Deborah being overweight makes her the subject of teasing from his friends and he cannot overcome both the razzing and the odd sensation he has in his penis, which causes him impotence when it is time to go all the way.  He finally gets this fixed by a kind woman doctor. <br /> <br />Surrounding all this is a social milieu that includes mobile phones but otherwise could be the era of the Knack with condoms.   <br /> <br />I enjoyed Burgess's writing and accepted that I was reading a comic novel that was trying to be frank and sensational, but was also conventional and ultimately moral.	2005-09-24
US	53073605	R3Q77JXZ0XFEPI	0312276753	542925383	More Than Enough: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An unrelenting look at a family at the boiling point	Steven Parker's family moves to Salt Lake City as his father's last chance to improve their lot.  They live a rich fantasy life that covers up the harshness of their poverty in the middle of an affluent city until Steven's arm is yanked out of its socket by a boy who objects to his lack of belief in God.  Billy, Steven's dad, has not paid the health insurance bills, so Steven has to be driven in the snow clear across town to the local charity hospital.  When Billy negotiates a settlement with the family of the boy who beat up Steven, the temporary affluence the money causes pushes the family over the edge.   <br /> <br />One day, when Steven's mother witnesses a death at the elder care facilty where she performs menial work so the family will never be without health insurance again, the same day Billy's grades at  the school where he is supposed to be training for a second career come in as failures, she gets fed up, and she acts decisively to break the family apart.  A single day takes up two-thirds of the book as the scenario is played out, leaving her and her daughter safe and financially secure and Billy and Steven alone together with no prospects.   <br /> <br />This book has a lot to say about teenage angst, the paper-thin veneer of many Americans' affluence and the culture shocks that can still affect us in this seemingly homogenous society.  Ultimately, some of the reactions, particularly Steven's, seemed a little contrived and overly dramatic, and the reactions to him appeared unrealistic.  But Fulton is a superb writer and the Salt Lake he recreates is true to life.	2005-09-06
US	53073605	R2KZNOVZ3LONKN	0553380753	348196357	The New Rabbi	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Makes up for the thin plot with great insight into individuals	The kind of journalism Stephen Fried pursued for years here is always risky.  To cover the rabbinical search at a major synagogue is a great idea, but the risk is that in the end it won't make much of a story.  Even with the Epilogue, the true story of the Har Zion rabbinical search is incomplete on both ends--we don't see the formation of the search committee or the final appointment of a permanent senior rabbi--and ultimately unsatisfying because we also don't see the inner workings of the synagogue elite who made the decisions.   <br /> <br />And yet Fried makes up for that with his real talent, which is to delve the depths of the souls of some of the most important participants, particularly Rabbis Gerald Wolpe and Jacob Herber and future Har Zion President Jeff Blum and his wife Cindy, revealing to us their hopes and fears, and along the way giving us great insight into his own experiences and his own connection with Judaism, with the rabbinate and with synagogues.   <br /> <br />My Zede, God rest his soul, used to tell me that all Jewish organizations were the same, and he would regale me with stories about board meetings, always ending with this remark, \\"Everyone thinks they should be President.\\"  In my own wider experience, I can say that his remarks had far wider application than to Jewish groups, but Fried reminds us that they still apply there just as they did in my Zede's day.  As the final stones are cast at Rabbi Herber and President Blum, Fried comments that there were those who took a side not because they believed in it, but because they were people who always had to take a side.  I thought of my Zede and smiled.	2005-09-06
US	53073605	R21W46LFYUR0UU	1573225886	215849510	Social Blunders	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Amusing, but less fully-realized than its predecessors	I read the entire trilogy one after another without a break.  I was greatly looking forward to this book because I had enjoyed the others so much.  Unfortunately, while there are portions of this book that are touching, and others that are flat-out funny, the book suffers from two serious flaws.   <br /> <br />First, Sam has too damn much money.  This leads to many, many problems with the book.  To begin with, it totally misses the opportunity that was foreshadowed in Skipped Parts, when Caspar, Sam's grandfather, kept importuning him, \\"think carbon paper.\\"  We all know that carbon paper was the buggy whip of the late 20th century, and one expected that eventually the Callahan fortune would dissipate and Sam (and Lydia and Shannon and for that matter Maurey) would be left to fend for themselves financially.  Instead, Sam, despite having absolutely no head for business or investment, makes a whimsical decision to change the family business into a golf cart company and finds underpaid women executives to run it, and voila, he makes millions a year and doesn't have a clue how his own business is run.  As a result, he can buy anything and anyone.  Private detective on your tail?  Pay him off.  Cub Scouts distributing leaflets about you?  Pay them off.  Pete runs up thousands in hospital bills?  Send a check.  Yet, oddly, Sam doesn't just go out and replace his 380Z when his wife runs off, or even the muffler on her old beater.  Huh? <br /> <br />Second, too many characters are introduced too quickly and their reactions overwhelm any appropriate motivation.  With just a few words exchanged in the space of hours, two men are seeking to destroy his life, a young boy decides to attempt suicide around him, one woman throws himself at him and another seeks in him the great friend of her life.  I'm skipping a few.  In the midst of all this, the one character who barely says a word, Mimi, was actually the one person who knew Sam's mom as a friend.  Nothing about this was developed, just like nothing about the fact that Sam is planning to spend the rest of his life with her daughter.  \\"Lydia, you remember your friend Mimi?  Well, the one good thing to come out of this is I'm in love with her daughter.\\"  The line never gets spoken.   <br /> <br />All that being said, once all the junk with the five families is disposed of and the book heads to Wyoming, where Sandlin is far more comfortable describing the characters and society, the book settles down significantly.  The scenes where Maurey and Sam finally conclude that it is time for them to \\"break up\\" are touching and beautiful.  If I were editing a book that ended this well, I'd either have demanded that the North Carolina scenes be filled in significantly, or a lot of the characters cut completely.  In the first two books of the trilogy, Sandlin made even a minor character like Rodney Canneloski or Hugo, Sr. come alive for us.  I could have done without Wanda and the two pregnant girls and everyone but Gilia who lived around the golf course, and would have liked to learn more about Bill Gaines (did he pick the name from Mad's publisher?).  And was there really as much of a need for a home for unwed mothers in the early 80's as he posits?  By then, with legal abortion and a change in societal mores, I would have thought such places were going the way of carbon paper.  But maybe that was Sandlin's point and I missed it.	2005-08-25
US	53073605	RXI9M1485WSWJ	1573226041	108581825	Sorrow Floats	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stands on its own as a great work about personal redemption	You sort of knew that the Maurey Pierce that Sam Callahan described in his first-person narrative in Skipped Parts wasn't as together and perfect as he made her out to be.  In Sorrow Floats, Maurey takes up the narrative herself, and we see not only the sadness and insecurity that Sam missed, but the guilt she felt about how her life had gone and her inability and unwillingness to parent the daughter she had on her 14th birthday and eventually over her father's untimely death, while riding her own beloved show horse.   <br /> <br />This has led Maurey to pursue a marriage with Dothan Talbot, her high school boyfriend, that she knew would be disastrous, and to drink.  The real love of her life, she thinks, is Yukon Jack, and she nearly kills her infant son Auburn (all Talbots are named for Alabama towns) and loses her marriage, self-respect and her standing in her hometown of Gro Vont, Wyoming.   <br /> <br />To begin her redemption, she begins a picaresque journey with two unlikely characters, Lloyd, pursuing a lost wife who is never found, and Shane, wheelchair-bound but hardly wheelchair-ridden, and given to apparent exaggeration of his personal exploits, which included bedding Katharine Hepburn in unusual circumstances and dating Priscilla Beaulieu before Elvis, to whom he introduced her.  Both are recovering alcoholics who never miss a meeting, but the mission of their trip, besides finding Lloyd's wife and saving Shane's sister, is to sell Coors beer east of Arkansas for a large profit.  Maurey can provide money and a horse trailer to drag behind the hearse named Moby Dick, and on they go, headed to Shane's grandmother in North Carolina, which is also where Sam now lives with Shannon.   <br /> <br />So much just seems to happen along the way, as they pick up, in turn, Shane's sister Marcella and her two children, with her estranged husband hanging behind like Inspector Fix, a young hippie girl named Critter who is returning to her lover named Freedom, perhaps the most oxymoronic nickname in all literature, and Freedom's son Owley, who has never trusted anyone in his life until he meets Maurey.   <br /> <br />But all the while Lloyd and Shane are leaving Maurey to her own devices, as she gives names like Jesus and Elvis to her bottles of liquor, while subtlely and persistently letting her know what they think she needs to do to fix her life.  When disaster happens in the shape of a man who first saves them from corrupt police in Tennessee and then turns on Maurey savagely, Shane, wheelchair and all, is the one to save her hide, and then, in a beautifully written segment at his Grandma's farm, her soul.   <br /> <br />This is not a Christian book, a religious book or a tract in favor of Alcoholics Anonymous.  Quite the contrary.  But it is very much a book about how an individual might need a whole lot of friends to support her getting her act together.  Sandlin does this in the context of his usual humor and sharply written characters.	2005-08-23
US	53073605	R1AFNZ9S2JFI89	1573228397	275407184	Skipped Parts: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Remarkably Frank About Teenage Sex	This book is not for the faint of heart.  The title, \\"Skipped Parts\\", perfectly sums up what the book is about:  letting us directly in on the dark, dirty secret that teenage sex and extramarital sex actually occurred in the United States before the invention of the Pill, that there were abortions before Roe v. Wade and they skipped all those parts when they filmed Gidget.   <br /> <br />Sam Callahan uses a rich fantasy life to mask the fact that he has had to be father to his own mother because she is too young and immature to take care of herself and her own father treats her like a bought pariah.  Exiled to rural Wyoming in the fall of 1963, they survive by building real connections to real people for the first time in their lives.  For Sam, the transformation begins on the day of JFK's death, when he comforts Maurey Pierce, the only kid in his grade who can read besides Sam.  Maurey's Stepford mother, cowboy father and Dennis the Menace brother drive her to make an unusual pact with Sam:  together, they will learn sex so that when they want to have it with someone they really desire, they will know what to do.  Egged on by Lydia, Sam's mother, and some of her friends, they learn it quite well, until the inevitable happens the moment Maurey hits puberty.  Plot twists that would make J.K. Rowling jealous, humor, beautifully drawn characters, a great sense for the detail of the West and a tremendous understanding of the social mores of teenagers at the time combine to make this a simply irresistible novel.	2005-08-13
US	53073605	R2NZEH70041B3	0156031000	469144735	Ibid: A Novel	Books	2	7	8	N	N	A man's reach should exceed his grasp, and this time it did	I adored Ella Minnow Pea.  It was witty, well-paced, inventive, funny and endearing.  It is rare that a comic novel packs such a serious message. <br /> <br />Ibid., the story of three-legged Jonathan Bleshette, carried solely through \\"endnotes\\" because the manuscript was lost in a bathtub, is another self-conscious attempt by Dunn to reinvent the novel.  I would like to think that he succeeded, and indeed about 20 pages into the book I thought he'd succeeded admirably. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, as the book goes on, it seems more and more like a one-note piano.  Bleshette is, again quite consciously, like Zelig (or the uncredited Forrest Gump); he meets numerous famous people in his life, often in unusual ways.  There is a constant theme of the women in his life meeting their end in Boston, until his great love, the prostitute Great Jane, breaks the \\"Boston curse\\".  But so what.  Despite his ability as a novelist to invent any source he wants, from transcripts of conversations to the notes Bleshette and the future Rudolph Valentino scribbled for stage names for the latter and a deodorant brand for the former, Dunn fails to make either Bleshette or the other characters come alive.  The last two-thirds of the novel are rather boring, and little comes of the possibilities that the first bits promised.   <br /> <br />Great Jane, for instance, seems at first to have possibilities, and although she ends up as Lady Jane, and tries to save prostitutes from that life, we never get to know her much, or see her plying her trade.  The various hangers-on at the deodorant factory have fewer possibilities (the running joke of \\"she's the one\\" \\"no, she's not\\" is okay but gets tiresome) and Jonathan's relatives seem to come and go without much purpose, the only exception being his father who comes to learn Yiddish after spending his whole life in Arkansas before Jonathan moved him to New York. <br /> <br />But the real problem is the possibilities for Jonathan himself that are notexplored in sufficient detail.  You'd think a man with three legs would have a set of interesting encounters with tailors; nope.  Jonathan goes to war; how were his uniforms made?  Can he use three legs as a tripod and hold a machine gun better?  No idea.  Are there rules to sports that can be gotten around if you have three legs (e.g., catching a football in-bounds)?  A possibility not exploited.   <br /> <br />The endnote thing is similarly unexploited.  If you read endnotes (and I do) one thing you notice is a lot of vituperativeness toward prior biographers.  Dunn creates the prior biography (\\"Three Legs, One Heart\\") but doesn't take it far enough.  Give us a diatribe, Mark, something totally outlandish.  Pick on the guy's commas or something, or a perpetual misspelling with endless \\"sic's\\".   <br /> <br />I'm glad we have authors like Dunn who experiment with the novel; this one just didn't work.  At the end he notes his admiration for Woody Allen, and one wonders if he's a fan of the later, unfunny films.  This book is a lot like them.  A great premise with too few jokes and not enough character.	2005-07-06
US	53073605	RWIQFT10KNBNU	0375507256	851412948	Cloud Atlas: A Novel	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A literary tour de force	Over 30 years ago, John Fowles broke the fourth wall of literature, beginning Chapter 13 of The French Lieutenant's Woman by answering the question his omniscient narrator had posed at the end of Chapter 12 with, \\"I do not know.\\"  David Mitchell does much the same thing in Cloud Atlas, but without once having to smack the reader in the face with literary technique.  Instead, he breaks off each of the first five of his disconnected but interwoven narratives at the right point, and then lets you in on the secret of the plot, the interconnections of his themes and his final summing up gently and with great care.   <br /> <br />I read this book slowly, savoring each page and each thought Mitchell provided.  The book it most reminded me of was Life:  A User's Manual by Georges Perec, also a set of interwoven tales where the connection between them was left to the reader instead of being provided directly by the author.  Each made me wonder both at the genius of the author and the depth of the issues we confront in our daily life.  At the end of Cloud Atlas, you should be questioning the very choices you have made in your life, the things you have taken for granted and the wrongs you have left uncorrected.  That this can be done in a novel that is at once amusing, infuriating and superbly written says a lot.	2005-06-09
US	53073605	R2J2VZHIYS2ZA0	0312423292	633784315	Going to the Sun: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Thoroughly absorbing interior monologue	I am a man and I don't have diabetes, but I do bike for long distances, and the kind of thought process that Penny goes through as she bikes across the country is exactly how you think when you're biking.  Sometimes you can focus on nothing but the road ahead, or the traffic catching up to you.  Sometimes you focus on your hunger or thirst or fatigue, or you wonder if you can make the next destination before you simply drop from exhaustion.  And other times you get so absorbed in what you're thinking about that the miles simply melt before you, but you can also be greatly at risk of missing something. <br /> <br />And thus Penny, as she rode across North Dakota, missed a fissure in the road and wiped out, and her story about herself and her grief and guilt over her lost boyfriend Saint stumbled upon a new and interesting character, Ndele (or is it Ndele?), the always surprising young, educated and intellectually curious African-American athlete, or else his potential carjacker/kidnapper brother.  I particularly enjoyed McManus's straightforward development of Penny's thoughts about Ndele.  They struck me as just what a white, female graduate student from a privileged background would think as she saw first the size and blackness of the man and then experienced his cheerfulness and manners and depth of character.  She was his prisoner, but his prisoner in an eye-opening exercise. <br /> <br />My only criticism of the book is that it really needed a good fact-checker.  The Alaska Natives you would see in a Juneau hospital are almost undoubtedly not Inuits (I checked with my Tlingit friend from Juneau and he said that calling his people \\"Inuit\\" is an insult).  Route 2 ends not in Seattle but in Everett, about 30 miles north of Seattle.  Late in the book, he refers to \\"St. Rupert\\" and not \\"Prince Rupert.\\"  The Sonics, of course, were not World Champions at any time this book was supposed to take place, although that was probably the literary license of alternative history.  But I've been to every venue in this book, including driving Route 2 all the way from Michigan to Washington (skipping the part where Penny leaves it, too, to take the Going to the Sun Highway) and he invokes it beautifully.	2005-05-26
US	53073605	R2D1QZWM8YQLOZ	0425157768	38233097	Saving Grandma (Calvin Becker Trilogy)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good sequel but not as great as the original	Or \\"Zermatt\\", its own sequel, either. <br /> <br />In \\"Saving Grandma\\", Calvin Dort Becker shifts between the nearly unbearable tension in his family chalet/mission that began with his unbelieving grandmother coming to live with his missionary family, and the nearly equally unbearable tension of adolescence.  I found both the portraits of his family--particularly his father and his grandmother, who come to the fore more than his mother and sisters in this sequel to \\"Portofino\\"--to be compelling and interesting, and the crisis his father created in his ministry to be humorously absurd but nonetheless genuine.  And I absolutely adored Calvin's fantasy life where his thoughts would escape from the travails at home into his imagined time with his beloved Jennifer.   <br /> <br />What seemed missing to me was any connection between the narrator--an older Calvin in the first person--and the parts of Calvin that are not typical of nearly fifteen year-old boys:  his illiteracy and his blindness to the incredible chances he is willing to take with others' lives, as when he nearly kills the \\"spastics\\" his family mission cared for, or when he tampers with his grandmother's IV.  The narrator neither judges his prior life nor explains how he got from there to here.   <br /> <br />I did, however, laugh out loud, particularly at the ending when he returned to Portofino and I smiled a lot at the end.	2005-05-16
US	53073605	R19BWDXCF457D8	0684809931	307786913	Disney War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Reads like a novel, but the facts pack a real punch	I have enjoyed many of James B. Stewart's books--The Partners, Den of Thieves--so I bought this on his reputation and I wasn't disappointed.  His access to Eisner himself, his interviews with persons in and out of the company, plus, as he acknowledges, the unprecedented opportunity to see internal company documents because of the Katzenberg and Ovitz litigations, allow for a fuller and richer understanding of Disney's successes and failures than a reader has any right to expect.  That this came out almost coincidentally with Eisner's announcement of his retirement and his successor, proving Stewart's point that the critical Pixar relationship might be saved if \\"anyone but Eisner\\" ran the company, made it all the more telling and timely.   <br /> <br />Stewart really strives to be fair to Eisner, even though he concludes in the end that he is a liar.  He gives him credit when due for the successes of his early career and throughout his time at Disney.  He has such a mound of evidence about his duplicity and inability to get along with others, plus his obsession with loyalty on the board, that I thought this might descend to the level of hate for the biographical subject that Robert Caro had in the second volume of his LBJ biography (Caro gave LBJ his due in volume III, too, by the way).  Stewart never does; if in the middle of a list of failures he has a success, Stewart describes it, the mark of a good biographer.   <br /> <br />The one issue I wish he had dealt with in more depth was the curious success of Anne Sweeney at ABC, even though executive after executive leaves rather work with her.  At the very end, she is taking credit for \\"Desperate Housewives\\" even though Susan Lyne was responsible for it (at the same time Eisner was criticizing Lost, since it was Lloyd Braun's baby).  So who is she, why does everyone hate working with her, and how does she survive?  It's odd that someone who figures so prominently in  careers of persons whom Stewart featured is leftas such an enigma.  Doesn't detract from the book, but it would have been nice if it had been covered.	2005-05-02
US	53073605	R3KDCYQJIUHV8G	0312315732	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Too Predictable; Too Conventional	I was a huge fan of Election and I liked Joe College.  My expectations for this book were high and it didn't come close to meeting them.  Why?  Mainly because the characters never engaged me; I could see what Perrotta wanted to do with them a mile away.  Sarah was too good for the ladies at the playground, and though her husband had rescued her from a life at Starbucks, he obviously had to have something wrong with him (addicted to porn) or else the plot wouldn't work.  Todd's wife pushed him too much and his mother-in-law was an eagle-eyed snoop.  Ronnie was not only a pederast and a murderer, but his mother stupidly thought that all he needed was a nice girl to settle down with.  Larry's marriage couldn't just have ended, it had to end because his wife became too involved first with Catholicism and then with their Nigerian priest.  Indeed, we had to set up a whole scenario involving Larry's priest from his youth and the woman he loved and their video store just to set up a single line Larry throws at his wife. <br /> <br />Enough already.  In Election people's motivations were explained, but their actions were not obvious or telegraphed.  Tracy was not just an ambitious goody-two-shoes, she'd seduced a teacher.  Tammy was a loner who discovered an unusual talent as a rabble-rouser.  Paul was too stupid to vote for himself.  Jim crumpled up the ballots but was too honest to dispose of them safely.   <br /> <br />Here, everyone wears their motivations on their sleeves.  When Sarah sees, at the book club, that there is a life for her that builds on her strengths and her past, the moment flickers.  It's apparently just there to draw the too obvious parallel to Madame  Bovary (the Sopranos handled a similar situation with more subtlety).  Yet when you read that chapter, you're screaming for her to come to her senses, realize that she doesn't need Todd in her life, or Richard either.  Same for when she decides that the perfect solution is that she could go to law school; why does she need Todd in her life to do that?  In that light, the ending is worse than disappointing, it's false.   <br /> <br />It's also pretty sad that the only person who seems to end up happy at the end is Richard, who is allowed to wallow in his perversions and turn them into a business opportunity.  Mary Ann is important in the first few pages and the last few pages and ignored in between.  We get her biography so late in the book that we're left wondering why she's mentioned at all.  Again, it seems like everyone is just a plot device, not a person.   <br /> <br />All in all, a tremendous disappointment.	2005-04-25
US	53073605	R1NY7JX8P3F1J6	0425166945	167038257	Portofino	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Masterfully comic and captures growing up perfectly	As I was reading this book, and laughing out loud so often the folks on the bus I was on were staring at me, I thought back to when I was the same age as Calvin Becker.  I too thought of the things that we did on vacation every year as rituals: the people we'd see only when at our family cottage, the things my dad and brother and I would do only when on vacation.  It seemed like it lasted forever, although in retrospect it happened only a few times.  My experience was near a Jewish socialist summer camp in Michigan, yet Schaeffer was powerfully able to evoke the exact same memories with his stories of a Reformed Presbyterian family vacationing in Italy in the 1960's.  That tells you all you need to know about how universal his story is.  For me, the background of a religious, proselytizing Protestant family in Catholic Europe was interesting and enlightening, but the tensions within a family as you are growing up happen to everyone.  As many other reviewers wrote, I didn't want this book to end, and that a unique experience for me.	2005-04-22
US	53073605	R1Q7A4SQLRFQFV	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Maybe I read this in the wrong situation	In part, because I'm the same age as William Henry Devereaux, Jr.  Or perhaps because I read it in short snatches on the bus.  But the book just didn't work for me. There were too many characters with too little value to them, and I frankly didn't have the concentration on the book to keep them straight.  <br /> <br />There's a scene in the book where he drives his injured daughter back to his house and there are some of his colleagues waiting for him.  He essentially abandons his daughter to deal with the colleagues.  I don't really care to learn about a character who might do that, let alone one who doesn't end up suffering for treating his daughter that way.  Oh, great, he ends up getting Julie and Russell back together.   <br /> <br />The duck/goose thing was fun, the bits about real estate wars among college colleagues were interesting and poignant, but at the end, where he had all the male characters hanging out together, I felt like I didn't care about the fate of any of them.	2005-03-12
US	53073605	R2UW2I8A7RZ5IW	0300104324	838560470	The Shaping of America: A Geographical Perspective on 500 Years of History: Volume 4: Global America, 19152000	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Fine End to a Magisterial Work	For 20 years, D.W Meinig has been producing a work of superhuman scope, covering the development of America from the time of Columbus from a geographical perspective.  Each of the four volumes contains eye-opening information that cannot help but change your perspective on this country. <br /> <br />The first two-thirds of the fourth volume are really continuations of the themes of the third book, showing how the landscape of America was changed by first the creation of interconnecting highways and then by airways (we don't think of air routes as having geographical impact, but Meinig shows how they do), and then following up with the resulting internal migration that involved the development of suburbs to the detriment of urban cores (and which cities escaped the worst of it) and the movement from Rust Belt to Sun Belt that changed the political as well as geographical landscape.   <br /> <br />One great discussion, which was entirely new to me, involved when the decision was made to reapportion Congress without increasing its size, how that was impacted by early 20th century immigration policy, and how it affects us in profound and unintended ways to this day. <br /> <br />The last part of the book, which fits more into Meinig's Global America title, is somewhat rushed and probably could use some revisions when more perspective is gained.  He covers well the stretching of American power across the globe as a result of the World Wars and the Cold War, but doesn't really cover the degree to which American institutions, from Coca-Cola to Wal-Mart, shape the current world landscape.  For a book that ends in 2000, I would have expected some discussion of the WTO riots in Seattle in 1999.  By ending it at that artificial date, of course, he doesn't cover 9/11 or its aftermath, with their clear effects on the landscape from changes in the usage patterns of airports to the wall thrown up around the Washington Monument.  While he covers the special relations between Ireland and Irish-Americans in a short paragraph near the end, he says nothing of the Chaldean-Americans in Detroit and the Kurdish-Americans in Nashville, whom we just witnessed voting in their homeland's elections (albeit after this volume was published).   <br /> <br />These are nits, and as I said, Meinig was handicapped by the fact that much of what has happened to Global America was happening while he was doing his writing.  The fact is that this work is absolutely the most engaging series on this topic that has ever been written and will stand as a monument to the ability of a single writer to reshape our understanding of such a basic topic for years to come.	2005-02-26
US	53073605	R1FJ3LWTTQE0VG	0743261585	110003933	The Neyer/James Guide to Pitchers: An Historical Compendium of Pitching, Pitchers, and Pitches	Books	2	19	24	N	N	Disappointing even as a Reference Book	\\"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\" has this to say about the Earth:  Harmless    But don't worry, the next edition will include much more information.  Earth will be listed as \\"Mostly Harmless\\".    In \\"The Neyer/James Guide to Pitchers\\", you will learn about Jack Morris that he threw a fastball and a slider, added a change in 1982 and dropped the change for a forkball \\"after 1982\\".  And that in 1982 someone said his fastball was clocked at 94 mph. And that's it.  The words \\"split-finger\\" don't appear, despite a reference on p.50 to Roger Craig teaching the pitch to \\"most everybody on the Tigers' staff.\\" One guy he taught it to won 254 games and pitched until 1994, but you'd have to make the connection yourself. Mostly harmless, indeed.       A lot of the modern stuff is merely rehashes of information in annually produced \\"Scouting Notebooks\\", with idiosyncratic quotes   like the only quote about Denny McLain, which comes from Ted Williams who never faced him and managed him when he was a wreck of his former self.      These guys are great writers.  I've been reading James for 22 years and Neyer as long as he's been writing.  Nearly every one of their other books lies dog-eared and broken-backed in my bathroom from countless re-readings.  But the data in this book would have been better left to a website where it could be updated and corrected as time went by, and there could have been more articles on near-great pitchers and more description of how pitches were thrown and developed, as well as the authors' thoughts about the pitchers, rather than just \\"Fastball Slider Curve\\".      But really, if Neyer feels good about writing a book \\"describing\\" Kaz Sasaki's pitches without mentioning that he called his splitter \\"the fang\\", well, that's his choice.	2005-02-15
US	53073605	RGM4WHP9IKDJ0	0385722435	975747614	Ella Minnow Pea: A Novel in Letters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A parable for our times	Ella Minnow Pea (LMNOP) and her family live in the Republic of Nallop, an independent island off the southern coast of the United States.  It is named for the man who invented the phrase \\"The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog\\", and when the letters of the phrase on his statue begin to fall off, the government takes it as a sign from the founder that those letters can no longer be used in Nallop.  Progressive discipline for violating the prohibition in speech or writing will eventually, after three offenses, result in banishment.   <br /> <br />Ella and her valiant family bravely seek to survive this decree, as shown by the letters that make up this wonderful novel.  As each letter falls, so too does the letter disappear from the family's correspondence, and yet they creatively contrive to communicate without them, and to fight the decree while retaining their love for one another and their dignity. <br /> <br />The book is both charming and thought-provoking, funny and timely.  Because in the end, we are all faced with decisions from those in power--of whatever political stripe--that seem just as absurd and irrational as those of the Nallopians.  Ella Minnow Pea may be the Gulliver of our times.	2004-12-02
US	53073605	R5M7K96IQYK2W	0747270562	816201165	Don't Try This at Home	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Slapstick humor and poignancy combined	I couldn't put this book down, mainly because I was laughing so hard.  It's an absurd story, yet the characters are amazingly well-crafted and the broad humor nonetheless contains a moral that creeps up on you rather than smashing you in the face. <br /> <br />Charles is a television producer of a British version of \\"Candid Camera\\".  At the start of the story, he is approached by a woman in a bar who is looking for her blind date.  Being attracted to the woman, he lies and says that yes, he is her blind date, even though it turns out the blind date is a policy wonk working for Tony Blair.  Even though this lie is uncovered pretty quickly without serious consequence, the real fact that Charles is not quite sure who he is--is he Charles or Charlie, is he over each of his last two girl friends or not, does he want to bed Kate, the blind date girl, or either of the two co-workers whom he doesn't want to separate--becomes the real story of the book.  Two identity issues, one from an anonymous phone caller and the other from the fact that he can't escape the consequences of a prank his show pulled that ended in tragedy, follow him throughout the story, leading him on a merry chase first to France and the unwelcoming arms of an ex, and then to the west of England where he disappears into a new character but still cannot escape his own identity.   <br /> <br />Everything is done with a high humor and sense of absurdity--Charles' own and our own sense looking down on him--and the most unrealistic situations, such as two old men following Charles and his gangster captor across Dartmoor at night, somehow seem perfectly natural in the context of the unreal life Charles has led.   <br /> <br />It's a fun book, extremely well-written, and poignant.	2004-12-02
US	53073605	R1395GDWV28QSO	0679463135	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Lipman succeeds in exploring new themes	The typical Elinor Lipman book involves a discovery or rediscovery of a relationship from the main character's past:  a missing parent or sibling, old high school friends, acquaintances or enemies.  In Alice Thrift, though, she has created a main character without a past--she was too busy studying to have one--and thus Lipman explores an entirely new theme:  how to create a personality for the first time in your late 20's.  <br />As always Lipman effortlessly creates an environment that feels both familiar and real, here a teaching hospital in Boston.  Aware of her lack of bedside manner or really any empathy for other people, Alice is frustrated and alone.  She doesn't realize that the people who care about her--first her roommate Leo and then her hallmate Sylvie and a kindly OB--are the ones who are helping her to develop a personality and interests, and instead credits the changes in her to Ray Russo, the obviously evil patient turned suitor (we learn they will marry and the marriage will not last before we learn anything else; Lipman is interested in characters, not plot twists).  Nobody loves Raymond (sorry, I couldn't resist), but Alice's huge blindspots where her personality should be give her no defenses to him, and she is unable either to resist him or to ask herself the most obvious questions about his behavior.  Yet she runs away first from Leo when he turns out to have a girl friend (who is obviously wrong for him, but--in a twist that shows Lipman is writing about people, not &quot;characters&quot;--nonetheless a good person who helps Alice discover her own strengths as a doctor) and from Sylvie when she flirts with Leo.  Yet she only discovers that running from Ray is in her best interests at the last moment.  It is a tribute to the self-confidence and self-awareness she has developed over the course of the novel that she is able to turn the tables on Ray even before Sylvie and Leo bust him for his lies.  <br />This is a far less crowded novel than Lipman's previous effort, The Dearly Departed, and while not as passionate or fully-realized as The Inn at Lake Devine (which is simply a masterpiece), it is a small, but wonderful achievement in its own right.	2003-07-17
US	53073605	R2FZIO0E3GWVLY	0871138158	706565889	The Hiding Place	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A spectacular break from the usual bonds of narration	Azzopardi has taken the narrative device of Tristram Shandy or Kate Atkinson's Behind the Scenes at the Museum, and used it to delve deeply into the pain of the human psyche.  We see a child, Dolores, from before she is born, but instead of being welcomed into the world, her birth corresponds with the end of life as the rest of her family has known it.  Her father, mistakenly believing he has finally sired a son after five daughters, gambles away everything he has.  Then when he wants to gamble more, he takes away his wife's painstakingly saved funds, at the same time one of her sisters burns down the house; the mother has begun her descent into madness and forgets Dolores, who is so badly burned she loses a hand.  The cost of all this is one of her sisters, whom she never knows.  In turn, each of her sisters is lost, and her parents lost, in some way, until Dolores is adopted and spends thirty years away from them all.    Her mother's death brings her back, and all the family secrets are revealed, and so too are all the bonds that hold the family together and yet devour them at the same time.      To me, the key is the contrast between the prose, which is light, and the events described, which range from arranged marriage without love to arson to child battering to selling a child into prostitution.  It's the kind of book that makes you want to scream at the characters, \\"Don't do that!\\" and also the kind of book that makes you want to stop and think and re-read passages again and again.    That it's a first novel is simply amazing.	2001-02-24
US	53073605	R1KSLYS3TRIHIO	0859652378	190017308	The Rolling Stones Chronicle: The First Thirty-Five Years	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Latest edition barely merited being published	I had a copy of the edition of this book that covered &quot;The first three decades&quot;, but bought the new one, expecting some interesting information.  The new edition, covering &quot;The first four decades&quot;  has only 20 pages devoted to the last decade.  The information, detail and  writing in Karnbach and Bernson's &quot;It's Only Rock 'n' Roll&quot;,  which covers the same time period, far surpasses this book.	2000-07-04
US	53073605	RL20RS8AZ39PL	0810116863	580270655	Mendelssohn Is on the Roof	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Humor and Pathos Mixed Beautifully in World War II Prague	In short vignettes, the author explores the difficult choices faced by the people of World War II Prague, from Reinhard Heydrich (never named by name)  to individual soldiers, civil servants and Czechs and Jews of all stripes.   Some episodes are absurd and full of humor, particularly the moment when  the workers try to identify which statue on the roof is actually  Mendelssohn's (they choose the one with the largest nose and are about to  make the maximum possible error when they are stopped in the nick of time).   Others are almost painful to read, such as the choices of a Jewish scholar  hired to work on the museum built to illustrate the lives of his people; he  realizes the purpose is to describe a people who are to be eliminated from  the face of the earth.  <br />Unlike many Holocaust novels, this book presents  its points in a subtle and wonderful manner.  I cannot recommend it highly  enough.	1999-11-28
US	53073605	RBATTGAF6A6U1	0300075928	960114625	The Shaping of America: A Geographical Perspective on 500 Years of History, Volume 3: Transcontinental America, 1850-1915	Books	5	21	22	N	N	An excellent thesis impeccably carried out	Each of the three volumes of Meinig's history finished so far has simply whet my appetite for the next.  This third volume is that much sharper and better-focused than the prior two, making it an unforgettable experience to  read.  From how the experience of settling Oregon differed from Utah or  California, to the way the choice of where railroads were laid affected  both patterns of settlement and ecology, to how the relationship between  U.S. railroads and European steamship lines affected patterns of settlement  by different ethnic groups, he is always enlightening.  This is a book that  will change how you look at the country and how you look at history.  I  can't recommend it enough.	1999-10-22
US	53073605	R30QGO4GICF5T5	0670870064	172530663	A People's History of the Supreme Court	Books	4	38	43	N	N	Good Supreme Court history, but sloppy history	Irons has put together a useful and well-written history of the Supreme Court from its genesis in the Constitutional Convention to the present.  His short profiles of each justice and his (or her) contribution are  particularly helpful.  He also does a great job of bringing to life many of  the individual litigants who came before the court, putting faces on the  names from the past. Unfortunately, in history itself he seems to have lost  his way. One will find laughers like that Lincoln dismissed McClellan after  the disastrous defeat at Antietam in Virginia that a sixth grader wouldn't  make (it was in Maryland, it was at least a tactical victory and Lincoln  kept McClellan for another two months).  He places too much emphasis on  black-white relations, which while important were not the only thing the  Supreme Court did in the nineteenth century. Cherokee Nation v. Georgia,  the trail of tears case, is nowhere present, even though it led to the  largest confrontation between the power of a president and of the court in  our history.  In the context of their times, the cases in which the court  struck down the civil war income tax and dealt with the constitutionality  of greenbacks were also important, but are barely touched on.  He starts  well, with good descriptions of Charles River Bridge and Gibbons v. Ogden;  I wish he'd continued as comprehensively.	1999-10-22
US	53073605	RE2XMWZULX7PP	0195054652	969270610	Flawed Giant: Lyndon B. Johnson and His Times, 1961-1973	Books	2	35	40	N	N	Disappointing after a splendid first volume	I strongly preferred Dallek's first volume, Lone Star Rising, over the two Caro books that cover most of the same period, because Dallek presented a detailed and human portrait, while Caro seemed to have so completely turned  against his subject he couldn't see anything good about him.  So I looked  forward to Dallek's treatment of his Vice Presidency and Presidency with as  much anticipation as I can recall.<br />I was frankly disappointed in this  volume.  The entire Vice Presidency is handled in a single chapter and  contains no insight greater than that LBJ was frustrated in the job, hardly  a revelation.  And the treatment of the Presidency, while providing a good  general treatment, gives far less insight into his thinking and the way he  made decisions, than the first volume.  One can get far more insight from  reading Michael Beschloss's edited transcripts in &quot;Taking  Charge&quot;.<br />One cogent example:  in discussing the reaction to the 1967  Detroit riots, he quotes LBJ reacting to criticism by saying his statement  was drafted by the best constitutional lawyer in the U.S.  Yet one has to  look at the footnotes to discover that this &quot;lawyer&quot; is Abe  Fortas, who was then on the Supreme Court. That the president was  consulting a justice about a domestic policy statement is an important  issue, but one Dallek doesn't bother to tell us about.  Yet it is that kind  of insight that one looked forward to seeing in this volume. It's a shame  it's not there.	1999-06-06
