US	53078094	R1I6RZ4LXD2KRV	1401206883	498835016	Identity Crisis	Books	1	35	78	N	N	Tiny footprints of death - the decline of DC Comics	This pretentious and sorry excuse of a graphic novel should be relegated to the rubbish heap where it belongs.  It heralds DC Comic's year-long spiral into a miasma of grim-and-grittiness not seen in the comics industry since the 1980s, and does so in such an clumsy manner it deserves all the contempt it received from many comic fans.  Brad Meltzer may fancy himself a hotshot bestselling author, but Identity Crisis shows him up for what he truly is - a hack writer unafraid to use gratuitous and misogynistic violence and death in the place of intelligent story-telling.  Since Identity Crisis is so bad, I will have no qualms about revealing major plot points in this review.  Readers, beware.  Avoid reading further if you do not want any spoilers.  Identity Crisis begins with a murder - Sue Dibny, beloved wife of Ralph Dibny, the Elongated Man, is brutally murdered in their home.  The murderer seemingly got into the house despite an impenetrable web of high-tech security devices of both Earthly and alien origins.  Furniture had been trashed and the body of Sue badly burnt.  The Justice League immediately assembles a forensics team of their top scientists to study the crime scene for clues.  A small cadre of Justice League members (Flash, Green Lantern, Hawkman, Green Arrow, the Atom, Black Canary and Zatanna) suspects that the villainous Dr Light might be the perpetrator - Dr Light's powers include the ability to teleport and to generate intense light and heat, and he apparently teleported into the Justice League satellite and brutally raped Sue under similar circumstances years ago.  Zatanna wiped the memory of the rape from Sue's mind to spare her the trauma, and then proceeded to lobotomize Dr Light, turning his evil villainy into harmless incompetence.  Apparently the gang had been mind-wiping villains and keeping it secret from other Justice League members like Superman and the Batman who would have disapproved of such extreme measures.  Caught by the Batman in the act of lobotomizing Dr Light, the group panicked and mind-wiped the Batman as well.  Have secrets of years gone by finally come back to haunt the Justice League?  While the above synopsis may sound like the beginnings of a tantalising mystery, don't let that fool you.  Identity Crisis is so full of continuity errors, inconsistencies, plot-holes, red herrings and bad characterisation that had it been a novel, it would have been roundly trashed by any self-respecting book critic.  Fortunately, it is merely a graphic novel, and everyone knows comic book readers can't be very intelligent or discerning, right?  For example, Meltzer would have us believe that the top scientists in the Justice League would be stupid enough not to detect the chemical residue of a flame-thrower, the weapon that was actually used to burn Sue's body after her death.  Instead, they flail around ineffectively looking for potential suspects with fire or heat powers.  Just what sort of idiots are they?  The Batman is supposed to be the world's greatest detective, for God's sake.  Another example - faced with a cold-blooded murderer who can seemingly teleport into an ultra-secure facility, what does the Atom do?  Give his wife a crossbow for her own protection.  Hello?  Never heard of a gun?  And does everybody in the DC Universe and their grandmothers know the true identity of Robin?  The same Robin who did not reveal his true identity to his own father and his closest friends for years?  And need I even mention the tiny footprints of death?  You have to read it to believe it - how the Justice League finally finds out who was responsible for Sue's murder is so inane I felt unclean after reading the last issue of the mini-series.  My advice - if you must read it, borrow it from a friend or from the library, or read it in a comic shop.  Don't waste your money on this collection.  One star, and that's only because I can't go any lower than that on Amazon.	2005-09-09
US	53078094	R2BJAU3ZEVS2RQ	0439786770	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Better than Order of the Phoenix	Mmm ... okay, I must admit I didn't like Order of the Phoenix much.  Probably because I can't stand angsty teenagers, and Harry was such an angsty prat in OOTP.  Here in The Half Blood Prince, he becomes the more familiar Harry from the earlier books, albeit a little older, wiser and more confident.  Plus, with all the Ministry engineered interference with the running of Hogwarts out of the way, we readers can get right into enjoying Harry's school days again - no evil headmistresses with evil blood-drawing magical quills!  Rowling ups the teenage romance factor a bit more - lots of kissing here involving various characters - but it isn't annoying the way Harry and Cho Chang's tentative romance was depicted in OOTP.  The subplot about the Half-Blood Prince is intriguing.  I must say I felt rather stupid when I finally arrived at the big reveal near the end about the true identity of the Prince - I should have guessed right from the start, but I didn't!  The clues were all there!  I don't necessarily agree with other reviewers who say that this book is merely a filler for the next, final book.  HBP sets up the context for the next book, yes, but it is by no means a mere filler.  It is incredibly enjoyable, being a slower and more introspective book than the previous one.  We gain a lot of insight into Voldemort's character and what motivates him.  One example of Rowling subtly weaving the real world into her own fantasy world is the Ministry's leaflet about how to be safe in those troubled times in the wizarding world - it reminds me greatly of the Australian government's \\"Be Aware, Not Alarmed\\" campaign against terrorism i.e. a lot of smoke and mirrors with no real useful advice on how to actually be safe from terrorists.  Rowling's little joke about spell-checking quills also makes a non-too-subtle jab at Microsoft.  Meanwhile, Harry's character continues to grow.  Unfortunately, Ron and Hermione aren't used much at all, except as silly teenage romance props - I amespecially disappointed that Hermione's remarkable brain power isn't used a lot more here than it should have been.  Luna Lovegood and Neville Longbottom, used to such marvellous effect in OOTP, almost disappears from HBP - a pity, really, given that Luna is a wonderful creation and seems like a character with a few good surprises up her sleeves.  I would be very disappointed if she does not play a major role in the battle ahead.  Now for the really BIG REVEAL - oh, all right, I'll have to be nice and not spoil anything.  Suffice to say, there is a REALLY MAJOR DEATH due to a REALLY MAJOR BETRAYAL.  Or is there?  Is it all a red-herring?  Did that character really die and did the betrayer really betray the Order?  Was that really a plea, or an order to do the unthinkable?  Did Judas really betray Jesus to the Romans or was he merely fulfilling a role Jesus set out for him?  And we all know what happened to Jesus after his death, don't we?  I can't wait for the next book.  Five stars, and two thumbs up!	2005-07-20
US	53078094	RYP9PM4OXN3HZ	044653143X	960521744	Brimstone (Pendergast, Book 5)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Their weakest book yet. Minor spoilers ahead.	Art critic Jeremy Grove is found dead barricaded inside his own room, his face frozen in a mask of terror, his body grotesquely cooked inside out.  The smell of brimstone is everywhere, and an imprint of a cloven hoof is burned into the wall near his body.  More people are killed in similarly gruesome fashion.  Has the Devil come to claim his due?  Is the End of Days fast approaching?  The premise of Brimstone sounded interesting - I couldn't wait to get my hands on a copy, not wanting to wait a year for the paperback version as I've done with previous Lincoln Preston works.  Unfortunately, after reading the book, I must confess that I am mystified by all the glowing reviews for Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child's latest book here on Amazon.  Better than The Da Vinci Code??  A hyperbole if I ever heard one.    First of all, let me say that I've read and greatly enjoyed the previous four Lincoln Preston books to feature Special Agent Pendergast: Relic, Reliquary, The Cabinet of Curiosities and Still Life with Crows.  Those four books were great thriller/horror/mystery/detective novels that kept me at the edge of my seat, turning page after page until I finished reading them.  I even enjoyed one of their non-Pendergast book, The Ice Limit.  Brimstone merely made me bored, and a bit mad at myself for spending all that money paying for a hardback copy instead of waiting for the paperback version.  Why? [Warning: Minor spoilers ahead!]    1. I pretty much figured out how the victims were killed right from the start.  It was that obvious.  Any reader with a modicum of interest in science and kitchen appliances would have figured it out right away.    2. All that murder and mayhem for a WHAT?  Yes, an extremely rare and extremely valuable item, for sure, but even so.  All that conspiracy, plotting, scheming and killing for THAT?  You'll have to read it to believe it.  The raison d'etre for the entire mystery was just so inane.    3. Where were all the chills, suspense andsheer terror that I had come to expect in a Pendergast mystery?  The Relic has got to be one of the scariest novels I've ever read.  Reliquary was slightly less so, and The Cabinet of Curiosities made up for the lack of scares by being incredibly interesting with all that incredible background research about private collections that were the precursors to museums.  Still Life with Crows had some of the most suspenseful scenes ever put on paper.  Brimstone's murders merely became repetitive after Lincoln Preston's suspenseful description of the first murder.    4. Red herrings galore, mostly involving a group of religious fundamentalists gathering in NYC to welcome the End of Days, and their self-proclaimed Messiah, that had nothing whatsoever to do with the main plot.    5. Special Agent Pendergast somehow progressed (or retrogressed, depending on your perspective) from being a quirky, mysterious, intelligent and somewhat likable FBI agent into a Sherlock Holmes with almost preternatural abilities, and that annoyed me to no end.  Pendergast is fast becoming less and less like the original Pendergast in The Relic that was a bit weird, but somehow still likable.  He was originally sort of like a weirder Fox Mulder.  Now he has become a bit of a smug (and mystical) Sherlock Holmes.  And I hate that.    Anyways, despite my misgivings, I'll probably read the next book when it comes out eventually.  I just hope it turns out better than this one.  I'll reluctantly rate this book three stars - for the meticulous research, if nothing else.	2005-05-09
US	53078094	R5X74BKQOQ2MF	0743498399	841852739	Crisis on Infinite Earths	Books	2	33	42	N	N	Get the original graphic novel and forget this book.	In 1985, DC Comics made comic book history by publishing a 12-issue maxi series that totally reshaped the DC Universe.  Prior to 1985, the DC Universe was a confusion of alternate worlds, timelines and continuities that left readers confused: Did Superman, Wonder Woman, Flash, Hawkman and others fight the Nazis during World War II or didn't they?  Did Clark Kent ever marry to Lois Lane or didn't he?  Was Superman's cousin called Supergirl or Power Girl?  Did Wonder Woman have a daughter named Fury or didn't she?  The problem was, DC Comics was publishing a whole lot of stories that apparently took place on different Earths in different universes.  There was Earth-1, where all the modern-day superheroes we are familiar with lived: Superman, Wonder Woman, Supergirl, etc.  And then there was Earth-2, where identical or similar heroes appeared decades earlier to fight the Nazis in World War II.  And then there was Earth-3, where all the familiar characters were super-villains and the only superhero was Lex Luthor.  And Earth-S.  And Earth-X.  Ad infinitum.  Something had to be done, and \\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\\" was born.  In one stroke, this array of confusing alternate universes was compressed into a single universe.  Along the way, the origin of the so-called multiverse was explained, some existing heroes died and some new ones were born, battles were fought and sacrifices were made.  Established major characters like Supergirl, the Flash and Wonder Woman were allowed to die, along with a multitude of other minor characters.  The resulting DC Universe had a rebooted continuity that was unified, streamlined and easier to keep track of.  Twenty years on, no major comic book publishing event has surpassed the epic that was \\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\\". <br /> <br />All of which makes the mediocrity of this novel, which retells the story of \\"Crisis\\" from the point of view of the Flash, all the more disappointing.  Marv Wolfman's attempt to flesh out the original story (which he crafted with artist George Perez back in 1985) into a full-scale novel simply fails to measure up to the original tale - \\"Crisis\\" the novel is strangely lacking in the grandeur that \\"Crisis\\" the comic book had in spades.  \\"Crisis\\" the comic was an epic - \\"Crisis\\" the novel is simply a bore.  Yes, there is always a problem with translating visuals from a movie, TV show, or even comic book into plain old boring words, but the problem with \\"Crisis\\" simply isn't that.  For the record, I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Kingdom Come\\" by Elliot S. Maggin, \\"No Man's Land\\" by Greg Rucka, and \\"The Death and Life of Superman\\" by Roger Stern.  These novels, which retold the stories of some of DC other successful comic books, added something to the original stories by fleshing out the characters and expanding on the events therein.  You could read these books on their own merits and enjoy them without ever having read the original comics. <br /> <br />\\"Crisis\\" simply fails to achieve this.  The whole exercise reeks of a rush job.  Reading \\"Crisis', one gets the feeling that either Marv Wolfman (i) simply ran out of time, or (ii) lost interest totally midway through writing the novel, which should have been at least a third longer.  The whole narration feels terribly compressed, and its pacing is just awful.  The events from the first 7 issues of the original 12-issue epic fill up much of the book, taking up almost 80% of the novel.  The events of the last 5 issues were relegated to the remaining 20%.  I find this really weird, given that most of the crucial action in \\"Crisis\\" actually happened in the last 5 issues, as were the emotional ramifications of these events on the characters.  Events from the tail-end of \\"Crisis\\" were inexplicably skipped over while lots of boring bits were added to the front section.  Major characters were randomly dropped - where were Wonder Woman-2 or Superboy-Prime?  What happened to Darkseid, who played such a pivotal role in the final battle in the original story?  The origin of another vital character, Dr Light, was totally unexplained, as was her transformation from a selfish and uncaring person into a self-sacrificing superhero.  What happened to the villains' betrayal of their allies?  And after spending a couple of pages writing about how Wonder Woman pleaded with her mother, Queen Hippolyta, to allow her to take the Amazons into battle, Marv Wolfman did not even mention her subsequent death during the final battle!  The sacrifices of many other minor characters were given short shrift (e.g. Aquagirl, Lori Lemaris, Dove, Kole, Robin-2 and the Huntress).  This renders the whole narration emotionally uninvolving - the whole point about the original \\"Crisis\\" was about loss and sacrifice for the greater good.  Even the deaths of Supergirl and the Flash seem strangely sterile here compared with how they were depicted in the original comic book.  How can readers feel any emotional connection to the story if the deaths of well-established and well-loved characters only merited throw-off one-liners?  That last 20% of the book really should have been expanded. <br /> <br />My advice?  Read the original comic book - it is available as a reprint in both hardcover and trade paperback formats.  Wait for the paperback version of the novel if you must read it.	2005-05-06
US	53078094	R16MXS3Q141MV5	9627160474	923260877	Temutma	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Possibly the BEST vampire novel since Dracula.	\\"Temutma\\" is a little gem of a horror novel from Hong Kong that most readers would unfortunately never have heard of.  It is quite possibly the BEST vampire novel I've ever read since Dracula (take that, Anne Rice) - and I say this not because of Temutma's literary merits, but because of its frenetic pacing and the atmosphere of sheer terror that it evokes.  Set in Hong Kong in the early 1990s, an ancient horror awakens deep within the catacombs of Kowloon's famed Walled City.  A series of grotesque murders are committed on one single night, leaving the Hong Kong police completely baffled.  The murders are seemingly unrelated; but for the fact that the crime scenes all fall on a direct line of sight beginning from the Kowloon Walled City, across the narrow strait separating Kowloon from Hong Kong island, to the Bank of China building, and finally ending at a luxury home at the Peak.  All victims had been drained completely dry of blood.  Even more strangely, one of the first victims had been seen following a subsequent victim hours after he supposedly died, according to forensics.  As the chief investigating officer, Superintendent Michael Scott of the Royal Hong Kong Police, delves deeper into the mystery, little does he know that he will soon come face to face with a being more ancient and powerful than he could ever imagine - an amoral being whose only instinct is to satisfy his own bloodlust.  Rebecca Bradley and Stewart Sloan successfully weave Chinese superstition with vampiric lore into a melange of fear and action so thick one could almost imagine watching the story unfold in a Cineplex with full DTS surround sound.  The characters are believable, the action is evenly paced, and the horror is conveyed though a finely-balanced mixture of suspense and gore.  Temutma, the eponymous vampire, is a creature so believably alien, repulsive and evil - and yet strangely compelling.  There is none of that vampiric angst, the likes of which authors like Anne Rice are sofond of, to be found anywhere in this book.  Here, at last, is a creature that stalks, tortures, kills and inflicts pain simply because it is what it does - much like the way a cat hunts for, and plays with, its prey purely out of instinct, the way all cats do.  Five stars and two thumbs up!	2005-03-10
US	53078094	R3OBUUSZ1RIDNP	0520227042	369023760	Mahabharata	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Mine of Jewels and Gems	Vyasa's Mahabharata is a massive epic that has no equal in Western literature.  The central story of the Mahabharata revolves around five brothers (the Pandavas) who were disinherited of their kingdom through the treachery of their cousins (the Kurus) and their struggle to regain what is rightfully theirs.  The epic culminates in the apocalyptic Battle of Kurukshetra, engineered by the Gods to wipe out the warrior race.  Tagged to this central plot is a veritable mine of jewels and gems - a whole library of ancient Hindu folktales, myths and legends that serve to illuminate the ancient Hindu concept of dharma and adharma (which can be translated very loosely as \\"right/truth\\" and \\"wrong/falsehood\\").  William Buck's retelling of the Mahabharata is the second version that I've read in two months - the other being C. Rajagopalachari's version.  While I enjoyed Rajagopalachari's version immensely, I felt that something was missing.  As with most other Indian writers who retell the great Indian epics for English speaking audiences, Rajagopalachari successfully evokes a deep sense of piety - these epics are, after all, sacred scriptures to the Hindus - but he fails to measure up in terms of evoking the sheer sense of awe and wonder that Vyasa clearly intended his epic to convey.  This Buck manages to do in spades - his version is told simply but clearly, with very little of the sermonising that Indian authors are sometimes prone to overdo, thus successfully transporting the reader to a wondrous time when Gods still walked the earth with men.  My sole complaint is that Buck sometimes randomly changes events/protagonists for no apparent reason - as others here have already noted, Buck has (i) Draupadi volunteering to become the shared wife of the Pandavas rather than this being the unintended result of their mother Kunti's edict to share the treasure that they brought home that day, (ii) Arjuna marrying Princess Uttarah instead of his son Abhimanyu, (iii) Krishna killing Duhsasana before the war instead of Bhima during the war, and (iv) Prince Uttara breaking the Kurus' battle formation instead of Abhimanyu.  Even Yudhishtira's final trial before his entry into heaven is presented by Buck only as a dream.  I can only give Buck four stars instead of five due to these unnecessary changes.  Such faults aside, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  If you have never read the Mahabharata before, I would suggest starting with Buck's version.  It will get you hooked onto this wonderful epic and make you hungry for more - then go on and pick up Krishna Dharma's unabridged version for a more accurate retelling.  Buck very unfortunately died before he could finish his retelling of the Harivamsa, a companion piece to the Mahabharata that fleshes out the life story of Krishna, along with that of Vishnu's other avatars.	2005-02-01
US	53078094	R2QR495WFXICM9	1401203469	528156158	JLA: The Tenth Circle	Books	1	7	13	N	N	The pits.	I'm a great big fan of the current Justice League of America since its Grant Morrison days.  But I will have to say JLA hasn't been quite as interesting since Morrison left.  Mark Waid was OK and Joe Kelly generally kept the title going for a while, but everything hit the pits after that.  And now this travesty - John Byrne and Chris Claremont have both long passed their use-by date, and it shows.  The plot is corny and terribly dated - a fugitive vampire (Crucifer) is plotting to open a dimensional doorway that will allow his fellow vampires to cross over into our dimension.  He brainwashes a group of young, super-powered outcasts to do his dirty work (i.e. eliminating members of the JLA one by one).  He even manages to mentally enslave the mighty Superman and uses him to eliminate Wonder Woman, the sole JLAer who might have secret ancient knowledge of how to deal with vampires (really!).  Meanwhile, a shadowy group of super-powered individuals are tracking Crucifer's every move.  Are they friends or foes?  Apart from serving as a vanity project to launch John Byrne's newly rebooted/revamped/retconned Doom Patrol series, I can't really see the point of the whole exercise.  Byrne, as usual, shows his disdain for other writers' work by totally ignoring the past history of the Doom Patrol, choosing instead to \\"create\\" anew his own version of the Doom Patrol (albeit using pretty much the same characters).  I have never forgiven Byrne for trying to destroy George Perez's work in Wonder Woman, and I doubt Doom Patrol fans will cheer his destruction of the Doom Patrol either.  And oh, by the way, the secret to Crucifer's power?  He hides his heart in a secret miniature dimension - as long as it stays hidden, he's safe from harm and cannot be killed (really!!).  As I said, totally pointless, dated, stupid and a waste of money.	2004-11-27
US	53078094	R1KC3ME7PFZRSO	9814022039	101329175	Ramayana in the Arts of Asia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simply beautiful.	The story of the Ramayana has captured the imagination of peoples all over Asia.  The abduction of Sita by the king of demons and her rescue by her beloved husband Rama with the help of an army of monkeys is expressed in countless literary traditions and narrative forms from India to Central Asia, South East Asia, East Asia and beyond.  As the Ramayana spread from region to region, it was adapted and transformed by each culture it came into contact with, resulting in amazingly diverse variants of the same basic story.  Yet most of these variant accounts are unknown to most readers, who are only familiar with Valmiki's original version or, who are at most also familiar with Kamban's Tamil (i.e. Southern Indian) version.  This is a great pity because these variant accounts are enriched by details and subplots that are often missing from the original versions.  The Ramakian (from Thailand) for instance is a highly entertaining epic in its own right, containing many adventures involving the monkey general Hanuman that are missing from Valmiki's account - probably because the Hanuman in the Ramakian is a much more amorous and sexually virile hero than the celibate that he is in Valmiki's Ramayana.  Garrett Kam's beautiful book fills this vacuum by summarising all the different versions of the Ramayana that he could possibly lay his hands on.  Due the sheer number of different accounts, the book does get a bit repetitive and not a little confusing at times. However, this book is worth every single dollar my partner paid for (it was given to me as a Christmas present) and well worth reading again and again.  It is also full of photos of artistic representations of the epic in the form of paintings, carvings, puppets, dances and other live performances, etc. from all over Asia - India, Burma, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia and many more.  Truly excellent and incomparably beautiful.	2004-11-15
US	53078094	RRTM2MFACERFQ	0192892231	195997737	The Foundations of Buddhism (Opus S)	Books	5	65	69	N	N	Buddhism as it really is, and not seen through Western eyes.	The Foundations of Buddhism presents an introduction to Buddhism as it really is, as seen through the eyes of millions of its Asian followers, and not the cleaned-up atheistic Buddhism of latter-day &quot;Western&quot; converts.  One reviewer thought that this book was a bad introduction to Buddhism simply because the author repeated the ancient Buddhist story of the Hindu gods paying homage to the Buddha at his birth! This merely reflects a largely &quot;Western&quot; bias.  Belief in the existence of gods is not anathema to the so-called &quot;real&quot; or &quot;original&quot; teachings of the Buddha.  Even Theravada Buddhism, the branch of Buddhism that is regarded as adhering most closely to the Buddha's original teachings, do not disclaim the existence of the Hindu gods.  According to the Pali scriptures, the Buddha himself simply regarded them as irrelevant to mankind's salvation.  Gods, like us, are caught in the web of samsara.  They may occupy an exalted place in the current scheme of things, but they too will ultimately die (admittedly after a very long time) and be reborn (possibly on a lower plane of existence based on the law of karma, in accordance with their previous conduct), and die and be reborn, again and again.  Thus, it is useless for mankind to blindly worship the gods in hopes of attaining salvation.  Salvation in the form of Nirvana can only come from within - through our own renunciation of worldly desires.  That is the main Buddhist message - Buddhism is simply not an atheistic philosophy that dismisses the existence of gods or other spiritual beings, contrary to what some &quot;Westerners&quot; seem to imply.  In Mahayana Buddhism and to an even greater extent in Vajrayana Buddhism, spiritual beings of all sorts occupy virtually all spheres of existence.  Buddhism is anything but atheistic.  Just ask any Buddhist living in Asia.	2004-07-06
US	53078094	R1YDLH55FRU88V	7800655997	183252405	Strange Tales from the Liaozhai Studio (3 Volume Set)	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Chinese ghost stories for adults.	Having greatly enjoyed reading the two great Chinese mythical epics \\"Journey to the West\\" and \\"Creation of the Gods\\" previously, I turned next to Pu Songling's massive collection of supernatural tales.  Pu Songling, who lived in the early Qing Dynasty period (17th century C.E.), was fascinated by stories involving ghosts, ghouls, goblins, demons and fairies.  His engrossing collection of ancient Chinese tales, like those  in the Japanese \\"Kwaidan\\" tradition, has spawned numerous TV and film adaptations over the years.  The well-known Hong Kong movie, \\"A Chinese Ghost Story\\", was adapted and expanded from one of the tales found in this collection, as were \\"A Touch of Zen\\" and \\"The Painted Skin\\".  This three-volume hardcover translation of Pu's work is a brisk read - I finished the lot (approximately 800 pages) in less than a week.  Most of the tales are very short, a few pages at most, and not really scary or anything like that.  There are hundreds of them here, and they do become repetitve after a while.  But what surprises me most about Pu's work is the amount of SEX involved.  No, there isn't any explicit description of the sexual act itself, but there are heaving bosoms and bodice rippings to be found between the covers.  An inordinate amount of the stories involve illicit sex of some sort, as well as a tale or two involving magical cures for impotency or for enlarging one's equipment.  The whole gamut of marital and extramarital sexual activities can be found within this collection: heterosexual, homosexual, consensual, non-consensual, incestual, bestial, sado-masochism, castration and even necrophilia (if memory serves).  One tale involves a philandering cad who fathered illegitmate children with prostitutes (a son and a daughter) who then had sex with them years later (on separate occasions, thank goodness - how much more shocking would it be if it involved a threesome!) without knowing they were his children!  Given the fact that Pu was writing in 17th century China, this was certainly an eye-opener.  The ancient Chinese weren't always as uptight about sex as I had always thought!  Pu's comments at the end of each tale also provides some interesting insight into the Chinese psyche of that time - some of which continues to be true to this very day.  All in all, a fascinating collection to read, but not especially entertaining.  And definitely not for children.  The fabulous \\"Journey to the West\\", written a century or two before Pu's time, is a far more fascinating book to read.	2004-04-29
US	53078094	R2GLUSPR7HIGUD	1401201970	220168841	Wonder Woman Vol. 1: Gods and Mortals	Books	5	42	48	N	N	All hail the Warrior Princess!	Decades before Xena: Warrior Princess was even a twinkle in Sam Raimi's eye, there was Wonder Woman.  Created in 1940 by Dr. William Moulton Marston (a Harvard-trained psychologist with a law degree and a PhD who also invented the lie detector) to be an inspiration for women everywhere, Wonder Woman remains the world's most recognizable female superhero, thanks largely to Lynda Carter's humorous but respectful portrayal of this feminist (and gay) icon in the 1976-1979 hit TV series.  Together with Superman and Batman, Wonder Woman has retained her iconic status as one of DC Comics' three flagship characters through much of the 20th century.  However, as a monthly comic, Wonder Woman had become something of a joke by the 1980s - no one really knew how to handle such a strong female character that Dr. Marston had intended to inspire women.  In fact, Wonder Woman was treated with much indignity when she was first made a secretary(?!?) in the Justice League of America in the 1960s, stripped of her powers in the 1970s, and increasingly had her character defined by her on again, off again relationship with air force pilot Steve Trevor.  Something had to be done, and one of the most acclaimed comic book artists alive today, George Perez, volunteered his services.  Wonder Woman was spectacularly relaunched in 1987.  \\"Wonder Woman: Gods and Mortals\\" collects the first seven issues of George Perez?s work on Wonder Woman and retells the origin of the princess of the Amazons, drawing inspiration from the rich fountainhead of fantasy that is Greek mythology.  Born to the Queen of the Amazons, granted superhuman powers by their patron goddesses, and trained to be a warrior from childhood, Diana of Themyscira uses all her skills to promote the peaceful ideals of Gaia, the Earth Goddess, and to protect the innocent.  In her first adventure away from her sheltered existence on Paradise Island, Diana must stop the mad war god Ares and his sons, Deimos and Phobos, from starting a nuclear holocaust that threatens to destroy all of earth.  For someone like me who had loved Greek mythology from a very young age, George Perez's Wonder Woman was an absolute joy to read.  Five stars and two thumbs up from me.	2004-03-06
US	53078094	R1V4ADE9ESSLCI	0674990226	228422219	Quintus Smyrnaeus: The Fall of Troy (Loeb Classical Library No. 19)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Quintus preserved what would otherwise be lost.	Quintus had big shoes to fill when he wrote his epic \\"Posthomerica\\" (\\"After Homer\\"), which is another name for this book, about a thousand years after Homer.  Set between the events of the Iliad and the Odyssey (and the Aeneid), \\"The Fall of Troy\\" tells the events that befell Troy after the burial of Hector, including its ultimate fate.  Quintus tried hard to mimic the poetic beauty of Homer's language, using remarkably similar similes throughout, but his epic lacks the central themes that Homer used to hold his epics together.  In the Iliad, it was the wrath of Achilles.  In the Odyssey, it was Odysseus' struggle to get home.  Quintus, on the other hand, had only a series of events to narrate in quick succession i.e. the deaths of Penthesileia, Memnon, Achilles, Ajax, Eurypylus and Paris followed by the destruction of Troy and the sinking of the Greek armada on their homeward journey.  On the other hand, had it not been for Quintus, we would have nothing to fill the space between the Iliad and the Odyssey.  The original epic poems (the Aethiopis, the Ileupersis and the Little Iliad) covering these events have been lost to us - it is not known whether Quintus merely reworked these sources into a coherent whole, or whether he wrote his epic based on extant summaries of these events found in Apollodorus, for example, or on fragments of the lost works.  Whatever the case, Quintus' work completes a trilogy that begins with the ninth year of the Trojan War and the ends with the return of Odysseus to Ithaka eleven years later.  We have no surviving works detailing the beginnings of the war - the Cypria has been lost to us.  For this alone, Quintus deserves a place on my bookshelf.	2003-09-22
US	53078094	RYNBGKTEHS3OP	156389792X	40127231	Paradise Lost (Wonder Woman)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	All hail George Perez's heir!	For too many years since George Perez revitalised her in 1986, Wonder Woman, Princess Diana of the Amazons and heir to the throne of Themyscira, has been treated shabbily, turned into a sex goddess, and denied her uniqueness as a character firmly rooted in Greek mythology.  Phil Jimenez tries hard to remedy years of mistreatment and return Wonder Woman to greatness.  He largely succeeds, crafting stories that involve the gods and goddesses of ancient Greece within the often underrated context of comic book super heroics.  \\"Paradise Lost\\" reprints his first seven issues as the writer and artist of the monthly Wonder Woman comic book, and opens with a four-issue story arc that involves the War God, Ares, and his children, Deimos (Terror), Phobos (Fear) and Eris (Strive).  Ares' three children have descended upon the earth and taken possession of the bodies of three of Batman's worst enemies, namely the Joker, the Scarecrow and Poison Ivy.  The mad gods plan to bring Ares' reign of terror back to earth by raising the Areopagus right in the middle of Gotham City with the help of Maxie Zeus, a small-time criminal purporting to be descended from Zeus himself.  Diana intervenes despite Batman's warning for her to stay away from his city, and the supporting casts of both superheroes (Troia, Wonder Girl, Artemis, Nightwing, Robin and the Huntress) soon get into the action.  The adventure gets off to a jolly good start with guest appearances by two monsters from Greek mythology, the Chimaera and the last surviving Gorgon, Stheno.  After the first story arc, Jimenez crafts a short story that explains the origin of Diana's twin sister, Donna Troy (Troia, named by the Titans of Myth after the city of Troy).  Next, trouble hits Paradise Island as Ariadne returns to exact vengeance on the Amazons by manipulating rival factions into starting a devastating civil war.  (Note: Ariadne was the daughter of King Minos of Crete, who betrayed her father by helping Theseus to defeat the Minotaur.  Theseus later abandoned her on the island of Naxos on his journey back to Athens, and married Antiope, Queen Hippolyta's sister.  Ariadne hates the Amazons with a passion for this slight.)  The closing story shows us what a day in the life of Diana is like, and introduces a potential love interest in the form of UN humanitarian aid worker, Trevor Barnes.  Jimenez excels at handling a large number of characters at the same time but his writing is often uneven.  For example, it is difficult to believe that the characters would talk so much in the middle of a battle - in some cases, they make whole speeches about duty and honour and other some such nonsense.  However, there is no question that he is a wonderful artist - he started off in the early 1990s imitating George Perez, but has since developed his own similar, yet distinctive, style.  Diana and her supporting characters have never looked better.  Jimenez's two-year run on the monthly Wonder Woman comic book ended recently, and he will be sorely missed.	2003-09-01
US	53078094	R1RBXQ4YEB2VJX	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Iliad of DC Comics	In 1996, DC Comics created comic book history by publishing a four-issue mini-series called \\"Kingdom Come\\".  Written by Mark Waid, Alex Ross and Todd Klein and lavishly painted by Alex Ross, \\"Kingdom Come\\" is based loosely on Ragnarok, the Nordic prophecy concerning the twilight of the gods.  It is DC Comics' magnum opus of such grand proportions that one can almost imagine it being sung by Homer to an enthralled audience of ancient Greeks.  This edition is a reprint of the mini-series, with the addition of an epilogue not found in the original series.  \\"Kingdom Come\\" poses the question of what happens to ageing superheroes when a new generation of younger superheroes eschew their old brand of heroism with one that is much more aggressively \\"proactive\\".  This certainly strikes a chord with current events - how far will the coalition of the willing go in the war against terrorism before the very rights and freedoms that we are supposed to be defending get trampled in our headlong rush into war?  \\"Kingdom Come\\" is set a couple of decades in the future of the DC Universe.  Superman has retired into a life of seclusion in the South Pole after the death of his beloved Lois Lane.  The other superheroes of his era soon follow as the public becomes increasingly disillusioned with their unwillingness to take justice into their own hands in the face of increasingly homicidal villains.  A new generation of superheroes with no such qualms has arisen, winning accolades from the public for their willingness to wage outright war on the villains.  Without the guiding hands of the older superheroes, things soon degenerate into anarchy as the line between heroism and villainy becomes blurred with innocent lives increasingly caught in between.  The entire state of Kansas is destroyed in one such cataclysmic battle, prompting Wonder Woman to persuade Superman to come out of retirement in  order to rein in the younger generation and to set things right.  They convince other older superheroes to come out of retirement, and together, the former Justice Leaguers start to round up the recalcitrant younger superheroes and villains who refuse to join their cause to rebuild world order.  Wonder Woman, who has been expelled from Paradise Island for her failure to spread the peaceful ideals of the Amazons, has lost much of her faith in humanity.  Against Superman's wishes, she proposes the building of a huge gulag to hold any superpowered person who refuses to surrender to the new world order.  However, some of the other older superheroes, like Batman, have learned over the years to deal with the chaos in their own ways and are suspicious of the police-state that will result from Wonder Woman's plans.  Older supervillains like Lex Luthor too have their own agendas for undermining the new world order.  When the superpowered prisoners finally break out of the gulag, an increasingly terrified United Nations hatches a horrific plan to exterminate all superpowered persons - heroes and villains alike.  A battle of epic proportions erupts as friends become foes in a four-sided war that may well have no winners.  Can Superman end the madness before justice and freedom are irredeemably lost?  Apart from the complex but moving plot, Alex Ross' visually stunning art is what makes this DC epic shine.  His superheroes are modelled on real people, which is why they look so alive and believable.  The panels are almost like video captures of some spectacular special effects extravaganza.  Grab a copy and keep this history-making epic in your library.  Five stars and two thumbs up.	2003-09-01
US	53078094	R3SOLHMAWBPFLJ	0823079198	941611537	Dc Comics: A Celebration of the World's Favorite Comic Book Heroes	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Great introduction to the world of DC Comics.	Buyers beware, apparently this is an updated edition of Les Daniels' earlier book, so don't fork out the money if you already own the earlier book, unless you think 16 pages of new material is worth the price.  Otherwise, this is an excellent introduction to the world of DC Comics.  It summarises the history of most of the major DC characters, from their humble origins to their glory days and beyond.  Much more so than Marvel characters, DC characters like Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman and the Justice League have, over the last half century or so, worked their way into the very cultural fabric and the psyche of the American public.  With the advent of globalisation, their influence now extends well beyond the shores of America into the wider world - just show anyone in Australia, which is on the opposite side of the globe, a picture of Lynda Carter in her star-spangled costume, and they can tell you that she is Wonder Woman.  A great reference for all comic book lovers, especially fans of DC characters.	2003-08-31
US	53078094	R6TIT8ZPRTS4E	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Aurors in the making.	J. K. Rowling continues to spin her magic in the fifth Harry Potter book in the series.  The book opens with Harry once again enduring his summer holidays at the Dursleys.  Forced to illegally use magic in the presence of his cousin, Dudley, to fend of an attack from Dementors, Harry becomes the subject of a hearing by the Ministry of Magic.  He faces possible expulsion from Hogwarts and a lifetime ban from using magic.  Dumbledore comes to his rescue, of course, and Harry escapes expulsion, but the coming year at Hogwarts turns out to be Harry's toughest yet.  His reputation amongst Hogwarts students is in tatters due to a Ministry-led smear campaign - the full story of how Cedric Diggory died in the Triwizard contest was never told, and Cornelius Fudge steadfastly refuses to believe that Voldemort has returned.  Harry also faces the prospect of a heavy workload in preparation for the O.W.L.s exams, which is not helped by the fact that the dastardly new Defence against the Dark Arts teacher, who is also the Ministry-appointed High Inquisitor of Hogwarts, constantly puts him in detention.  Harry's crush on rival Seeker, Cho Chang, is not helped by her confusing emotions towards him and the dead Cedric Diggory.  Harry's scar is also constantly painful whenever Voldemort has a particularly strong emotion, and his sleep is often interrupted by visions of Voldemort's thoughts.  Further, Dumbledore distances himself from Harry, believing Voldemort could use Harry to attack him through the mental link that Harry and Voldemort share.  Fortunately, Harry has a group of loyal friends to help him overcome these problems and more - Hermione helps to explain the intricacies of girls' emotions to the clueless Harry and Ron, Ron's sister Ginny grows up to be both wise and brave, and Harry gains a new ally in the apparently air-headed but mysterious Luna Lovegood.  Most surprisingly, Neville Longbottom blossoms from being forgetful and timid to being loyal and brave enough to facealmost certain death - a worthy son to his ex-Auror parents.  The books has surprising turns to keep one guessing as to who would be the unfortunate character Rowling kills off, and the reader is guaranteed to be kept engrossed until the very last word.  Now for the long wait for the next instalment.	2003-06-25
US	53078094	R1USIN9K2F1ZYP	1563895811	479315271	JLA: A League of One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A worthy book for any Wonder Woman fan's library.	A quick summary of \\"A League of One\\" goes like this: Diana discovers from the Oracle of Delphi that members of the Justice League will die if they face a recently re-awakened primordial dragon. The very breath of the dragon corrupts the soul, and Wonder Woman decides to sacrifice herself for the sake of her friends by resorting to lies and trickery to get them out of harm's way. This is much more difficult than it sounds -  Diana's essence is the spirit of truth - her decision to betray her friends in order to save them cuts into her very soul. Nevertheless, she goes ahead with her plans... I like this book a great deal because of the gorgeous artwork, which successfully fuses fantasy art with superhero action. Diana's character in this book remains true to both her mythological roots and to George Perez's revamp of Wonder Woman in 1986. Her pain at having to betray her friends, in particular Superman, is clearly portrayed, as is her deep friendship with Superman. Superman, the Boy Scout, and Wonder Woman, the Spirit of Truth, would have been so right for each other if it wasn't for Lois Lane. Although the theme of betrayal by a member of the Justice League is also explored in \\"JLA: The Tower of Babel\\" collection, I much prefered \\"A League of One\\". That is not to say this book is perfect - it is hard to imagine Diana not sharing her dilemma with her friends and trusting them to come up with a solution. The Justice League is family, and families take care of their own together.	2003-05-31
US	53078094	R1NLQ4BNGVIAJN	1563895811	479315271	JLA: A League of One	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A worthy book for any Wonder Woman fan's library.	A quick summary of \\"A League of One\\" goes like this: Diana discovers from the Oracle of Delphi that members of the Justice League will die if they face a recently re-awakened primordial dragon.  The very breath of the dragon corrupts the soul, and Wonder Woman decides to sacrifice herself for the sake of her friends by resorting to lies and trickery to get them out of harm's way.  This is much more difficult than it sounds -  Diana's essence is the spirit of truth - her decision to betray her friends in order to save them cuts into her very soul.  Nevertheless, she goes ahead with her plans...  I like this book a great deal because of the gorgeous artwork, which successfully fuses fantasy art with superhero action.  Diana's character in this book remains true to both her mythological roots and to George Perez's revamp of Wonder Woman in 1986.  Her pain at having to betray her friends, in particular Superman, is clearly portrayed, as is her deep friendship with Superman.  Superman, the Boy Scout, and Wonder Woman, the Spirit of Truth, would have been so right for each other if it wasn't for Lois Lane.  Although the theme of betrayal by a member of the Justice League is also explored in \\"The Tower of Babel\\" collection, I much prefered \\"A League of One\\".  That is not to say this book is perfect - it is hard to imagine Diana not sharing her dilemma with her friends and trusting them to come up with a solution.  The Justice League is family, and families take care of their own together.	2003-05-31
US	53078094	R1LWEV6J3X4C1X	1563899566	846577110	Wonder Woman: Paradise Found	Books	5	33	35	N	N	The Death of the Golden Age Wonder Woman!	\\"Paradise Found\\" contains writer/artist Phil Jimenez's two best issues of Wonder Woman (No. 172 and No. 173) in his entire two-year run on the monthly Wonder Woman comic book.  Not since the death of the Silver Age Supergirl in 1985's \\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\\" has the death of a DC super-heroine been treated with the emotion and the respect she deserves.  \\"Paradise Found\\" begins with tragedy - one of Diana's best friends, Vanessa Kapatelis, has been transformed by Circe (yes, the very same enchantress from Homer's Odyssey) from a sweet teenager into one of Diana's deadliest nemeses, the Silver Swan.  Meanwhile, Diana is upset that her mother, Hippolyta, is slowly usurping her role as the one true Wonder Woman.  (Note: Hippolyta travelled back in time to the Second World War to become the Golden Age Wonder Woman, a role she continues to occupy on her return to our present era.  Thus, there are two Wonder Women when \\"Paradise Found\\" begins.)  Diana's confusion at the change in her young friend and her own worsening relationship with her mother are soon overwhelmed by an intergalactic war that reaches Earth - survivors of many alien worlds have banded together to fight against a cosmic entity called the Imperiex, and Earth is chosen as their last stand.  Diana is seriously injured while battling alongside her fellow Justice Leaguers to stop an Imperiex attack on Earth.  Hippolyta bravely puts on her own Wonder Woman armour to fight the war in Diana's stead, but is tragically killed while protecting Greece from another of Imperiex's deadly attacks.  Phil Jimenez's art and prose successfully captures Diana's anguish at her mother's death, and Hippolyta's sacrifice is portrayed as noble, majestic and, above all, supremely maternal.  The queen of the Amazons deserves no less.  Diana has no time to grief for her mother however, despite feeling tremendous guilt that she had failed to make amends with her mother before she died.  The war grows increasingly bloody, and Dianahas to convince the Amazons to form an alliance with Darkseid, the dark god who had previously killed almost half their number.  With heroes and villains fighting alongside, the war is finally won.  However, Circe takes advantage of the superheroes' exhaustion at the end of the war to launch a full scale attack, transforming all the male superheroes into animals and letting villainesses loose upon them.  The rest of \\"Paradise Found\\" charts Diana's journey to redemption.  I cannot sing enough praises for Phil Jimenez's art which, like George Perez's, is full of tiny details that keep a reader engrossed.  To get the full story of the war against the Imperiex, also read the two-volume \\"Superman: Our Worlds at War\\" (where Wonder Woman No. 172 and 173 are also reproduced).  \\"Our Worlds at War\\" is not DC's best crossover around, but is still worth reading.	2003-05-21
US	53078094	R395HNOM8HQ75U	1563893185	435431137	Wonder Woman: Second Genesis	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Wonder Woman: Restoration?	In his first story-arc, John Byrne sets out to restore Wonder Woman's long-forgotten position as one of DC's top three superheroes, with physical strength second only to that of Superman.  Diana forges a new beginning for herself after the reprehensible machinations of her mother, Queen Hippolyta, caused the death of Artemis, the renegade Amazon who temporarily took over Diana's role as Wonder Woman.  Diana moves from Boston to Gateway City, adopts a new look, and gains a new mentor (middle-aged museum curator, Helena Sandsmark, who has a teen daughter) and a new potential love interest (Mike Schorr, a Gateway City cop).  This is NOT a good beginning from John Byrne at all - his laziness rears its head in two obvious ways.  Firstly, the new look Wonder Woman is nothing more than Byrne's desire to avoid having to draw too many stars - Diana's star-spangled bottom is reduced to only two HUGE stars at the front, and none at the back.  Secondly, Byrne's \\"new\\" characters show disturbing similarities with old ones created by George Perez.  Helena Sandsmark is a [copy] of George Perez's creation, middle-aged archaeologist, Julia Kapatelis, Diana's previous mentor who also has a teen daughter.  Gateway City cop Mike Schorr also echoes another of George Perez's creations, Boston's Inspector Indelicato, who also has a crush on Diana.  Such weaknesses aside, the story does get roaring - Darkseid invades Paradise Island, slaughtering over 1,000 Amazons, before Diana manages to repel the invasion with the help of Mike Schorr.  Diana is portrayed as a no-nonsense super-heroine who is well aware of her strengths.  This strong characterisation of Diana has been carried over to the Justice League of America, where Diana has been portrayed as a capable and confident leader since.  All in all, \\"Second Genesis\\" is not a bad read, but John Byrne's Wonder Woman stories get progressively worse in subsequent issues - in quick succession, Byrne tries to alter Hippolyta, Wonder Woman and Wonder Girl / Troia's origins.  In George Perez's 1986 revamp of Wonder Woman, Hippolyta was the spirit of a murdered pregnant cave woman given new life by the Greek Gods while Diana was the spirit of her unborn child.  Byrne tries to subvert this new origin by introducing an unnecessary character, Magala, the Amazon mystic who looks like a cave woman, suggesting that the cave woman we saw in George Perez's first issue of Wonder Woman was actually Magala, not Hippolyta.  Hippolyta somehow becomes War God Ares' daughter in a convoluted sub-plot that still eludes me.  Worse still, Byrne sends Hippolyta back in time into the Second World War to become the Golden Age Wonder Woman, thus messing up all of DC Universe's continuity.  In the process, Perez and Wolfman's 1988 revamped origin of Wonder Girl / Troia also gets flushed down the drain.  I was truly glad when Byrne finally left Wonder Woman - Phil Jimenez has since tried to undo some of the damage Byrne caused, though not always successfully.  But at least with Jimenez, we have a writer who has profound respect for Wonder Woman's history.	2003-05-15
US	53078094	R19JUQUQE00BFD	B0000646QU	413484466	The Perfection of Wisdom, Illustrated with Ancient Sanskrit Manuscripts	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Gorgeously illustrated introduction to "Emptiness"	This book is a selection of excerpts from The Perfection of Wisdom in 8,000 Verses (or Astasahasrika Prajna Paramita in Sanskrit), the first in a series of Mahayana Buddhism's sacred texts on The Perfection of Wisdom (or Prajna Paramita).  The Perfection of Wisdom texts, which include the much shorter Diamond Sutra (Vajracchedika Prajna Paramita Sutra) and Heart Sutra (Prajna Paramita Hridaya Sutra), essentially expand and go beyond the Buddhist concept of \\"no-self\\" to the more profound idea that all of existence is itself fundamentally empty.<br />Basically, the concept of \\"no-self\\" states that no one has an absolute or fixed \\"self\\" because the five aggregates that collectively make up an individual is ever changing i.e. a person changes from moment to moment and is never the same \\"self\\" yesterday, today or tomorrow.  Since the \\"self\\" is an illusion, the clinging of the \\"self\\" to pleasant things (belongings, fame, pleasure, etc.) can be ended.  Likewise, the tendency of the \\"self\\" to avoid unpleasant things (criticism, pain, discomfort, etc.) can also be ended.  Complete equanimity can be achieved, leading to the cessation of desire and to the achievement of Nirvana (release from existence i.e. Samsara, the endless cycle of birth, death and rebirth).<br />The Perfection of Wisdom texts go further and propose that all of existence is itself empty i.e. everything we experience here in this world, in this universe, is nothing but an illusion - everything is essentially void.  Since existence is itself void, Nirvana is therefore no different from Samsara.  As the Heart Sutra explains, \\"There is no suffering, origin, cessation or path; no exalted wisdom, no attainment and also no non-attainment.  Therefore, because there is no attainment, all bodhisattvas rely on and abide in the perfection of wisdom; their minds have no obstructions and no fear.\\"  The obsession with attaining Nirvana can itself obstruct our view of the truth that Nirvana is here with us because such obsession is itself a form of clinging.  Thus, only those who can see the true nature of all existence can be free from fear.<br />Richly illustrated with pictures of the historical Buddha as well as various Bodhisattvas from ancient texts, this book is a worthy addition to any library.	2003-05-07
US	53078094	R1QBH3UU0A8JKQ	1569317143	254899099	Uzumaki, Volume 1	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lovecraft's Japanese Heir	I saw Uzumaki Vol. 1 and 2 in a comic shop here in Perth, Australia, and grabbed them right away. I had read Junji Ito's Tomie Vol. 1 and 2 just weeks before, and I knew I could expect to feel the same spine-tingling thrill from reading this new collection of disturbingly weird and eerie images from Ito's twisted imagination.<br />Uzumaki is a collection of tales about a small coastal town haunted not by a ghost or a demon but by a shape - one of the most common and natural of shapes, the spiral. The mere idea of a shape exerting its deadly influence on the innocent folks of a small town is positively Lovecraftian in scope, and Ito does not disappoint.<br />Vol. 1 opens with the tale of a man who collects anything spiral-shaped and then spends hours staring at them, becoming increasingly unhinged as the tale unfolds. Next, in the most disturbing story in Vol. 1, a woman with an acute phobia of anything spiral-shaped shaves her head and snips off her finger-tips in an effort to get rid of all traces of spirals on her body. The panic on her son's face when he realises that an anatomy chart in her doctor's office displays the spiral-shaped inner ear sucked me right into Ito's tale of fear, dread, paranoia and mounting hysteria. The other stories in Vol. 1 are interesting enough to read, i.e. competent but do not quite reach the heights of the first two stories.<br />Vol. 2 ups the ante by presenting even more disturbing tales. The first story, appropriately entitled \\"Jack in the Box\\", has some of the most gruesome images I've ever seen in any medium, involving the disintegrating corpse of a dead boy intent on seeking vengeance from a girl who rejected him while he was still alive. And even if you are tired of vampire stories, \\"Mosquitoes\\" and \\"The Umbilical Cord\\" will still manage to give you a couple of sleepless nights, make you look at pregnant women and babies differently, and possibly give you a life-long phobia of maternity wards. Ito manages to give the old vampire angle a very frightening twist by linking pregnant women to mosquitoes - biologists would know what I'm talking about.<br />For any horror fans, I cannot recommend Uzumaki Vol. 2 enough. I hope Vol. 3 comes out soon, I cannot wait to find out what happens to Kirie, the pretty young heroine of the series, and her boyfriend, when the mother of all spirals - a hurricane - strikes their small town.	2003-04-01
US	53078094	R1A0JTT9TGC4MO	0140441115	253986468	Monkey (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A shortened version of Monkey's wacky hijinks	Waley's abridged translation of the popular Chinese classic Journey to the West is an approachable version for the initiate but I strongly recommend W. J. F. Jenner's excellent full and unabridged translation, also available from Amazon. Waley's abridged version concentrates mainly on the beginnings of the pilgrimage (e.g. Monkey's origins, his bid to overthrow Heaven, his subsequent imprisonment, his rescue by the holy pilgrim from Tang, and the conversion of the other disciples) and only a couple of the adventures along the road to Buddha's Western Paradise. Jenner's translation, spread over four volumes, covers all these and much more - a total of 81 adventures and misadventures spread over 100 chapters. If you like Waley's translation, go on and get Jenner's fuller version. Monkey is China's version of the universal trickster-hero. Jenner captures all of Wu Cheng En's sly humour, and you cannot help but laugh out loud when you read his translation.	2003-03-19
US	53078094	R11ZW7NLUCNU39	0349112231	798437544	The Sleeper in the Sands	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Secret of the Heretic Pharaoh	This is one of my all-time favorite horror novels.  The reason is simple: Holland uses a tumultous period in ancient Egypt's history, weaves it together with the Bible's Genesis and Howard Carter's discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb, and comes up with a totally plausible explanation for the mystery of the Heretic Pharaoh.  For those not familiar with ancient Egyptian history, Akhenaten (1353 BCE to 1335 BCE), a pharaoh of the New Kingdom, abandoned the worship of Egypt's old gods in favor of just one - the Aten, the sun-god as represented by the sun-disk with its rays bestowing life on the earth.  Akhenaten (&quot;Aten is content&quot;) forbade the worship of any other god besides the Aten, making him history's first official monotheist.  What led him to make such a radical and revolutionary change to ancient Egyptian life has never been fully explained by historians, although theories abound about the need to rein in the powerful old priesthood of Egypt's chief god, Amun (&quot;the hidden one&quot;), by instituting a new religion with Akhenaten himself as head priest.  Akhenaten's name, together with that of his queen, Nefertiti (&quot;a beautiful woman has arrived&quot;), and his heir and successor, Tutankhamun, were erased from all buildings, monuments and records after their deaths as ancient Egypt reverted back to the worship of their old gods.  Akhenaten was referred to simply as the Heretic Pharaoh, to be better forgotten by the ancient Egyptian masses.  It was as if they had never existed, until archeologists such as the famous Howard Carter re-discovered them.  Fans of ancient Egyptian culture will have a rollicking good ride with this book of stories within stories.  Of all Holland's books, this one is his absolute best.	2003-03-01
US	53078094	R37UGR085EZVMQ	1591160332	254899099	Uzumaki, Volume 2 (v. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lovecraft's Japanese heir	I saw Uzumaki Vol. 1 and 2 in a comic shop here in Perth, Australia, and grabbed them right away.  I had read Junji Ito's Tomie Vol. 1 and 2 just weeks before, and I knew I could expect to feel the same spine-tingling thrill from reading this new collection of disturbingly weird and eerie images from Ito's twisted imagination.<br />Uzumaki is a collection of tales about a small coastal town haunted not by a ghost or a demon but by a shape - one of the most common and natural of shapes, the spiral.  The mere idea of a shape exerting its deadly influence on the innocent folks of a small town is positively Lovecraftian in scope, and Ito does not disappoint.<br />Vol. 1 opens with the tale of a man who collects anything spiral-shaped and then spends hours staring at them, becoming increasingly unhinged as the tale unfolds.  Next, in the most disturbing story in Vol. 1, a woman with an acute phobia of anything spiral-shaped shaves her head and snips off her finger-tips in an effort to get rid of all traces of spirals on her body.  The panic on her son's face when he realises that an anatomy chart in her doctor's office displays the spiral-shaped inner ear sucked me right into Ito's tale of fear, dread, paranoia and mounting hysteria.  The other stories in Vol. 1 are interesting enough to read, i.e. competent but do not quite reach the heights of the first two stories.<br />Vol. 2 ups the ante by presenting even more disturbing tales.  The first story, appropriately entitled \\"Jack in the Box\\", has some of the most gruesome images I've ever seen in any medium, involving the disintegrating corpse of a dead boy intent on seeking vengeance from a girl who rejected him while he was still alive.  And even if you are tired of vampire stories, \\"Mosquitoes\\" and \\"The Umbilical Cord\\" will still manage to give you a couple of sleepless nights, make you look at pregnant women and babies differently, and possibly give you a life-long phobia of maternity wards.  Ito manages to give theold vampire angle a very frightening twist by linking pregnant women to mosquitoes - biologists would know what I'm talking about.<br />For any horror fans, I cannot recommend Uzumaki Vol. 2 enough.  I hope Vol. 3 comes out soon, I cannot wait to find out what happens to Kirie, the pretty young heroine of the series, and her boyfriend, when the mother of all spirals - a hurricane - strikes their small town.	2003-02-10
US	53078094	R14Q2XSFA16XEG	0679775471	930308284	Ka: Stories of the Mind and Gods of India	Books	2	15	22	N	N	Incomprehensible to an Indian mythology neophyte	Having read and loved Calasso's &quot;The Marriage of Cadmus and Harmonia&quot;, I grabbed this book the moment I saw it in a bookshop.  I guess I should have known it would not be an easy book to read - after all, if I did not already have a solid background in Greek mythology before I read &quot;The Marriage&quot;, I would have found it incomprehensible too.  This is NOT the first book about Indian mythology to read, and perhaps not even the second or third book - you will be utterly confused unless you already have a very good foundation in Indian mythology AND some knowledge of Indian sacred writings.  I was thoroughly disappointed, but perhaps that was my own fault for picking a book that went way over my head.	2003-01-16
US	53078094	R4WFY8O8EO0T7	1401200214	220417014	JLA: Secret Origins (JLA (DC Comics Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	3	17	17	N	N	More please!	Alex Ross's art, as usual, is gorgeous and a joy to behold. I have framed posters of his Wonder Woman and Aquaman hanging in my gym as testament to my admiration of his work. Alas, the pages in JLA: Secret Origins relating to Superman, Batman, Captain Marvel and Wonder Woman have been reproduced from previous books (Superman: Peace on Earth, Batman: War on Crime, Shazam! Power of Hope and Wonder Woman: Spirit of Truth) - all of which I already own. That made me feel a little cheated, but I guess I'll just have to wait a little while for his upcoming new JLA project. However, the full spreads of the JLA assembled still make this book well worth another look. Buy this book by all means if you do not already own the afore-mentioned books.	2003-01-12
US	53078094	R1VHWJQ76IJVEG	1563898985	199507981	Wonder Woman: The Hiketeia (Wonder Woman (DC Comics Paperback))	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A Greek Tragedy	Well ... I just had to write a review and give it five stars, despite being tired and sleepy (almost midnight as I write this).  Only two persons had reviewed this book, and one of them gave it only one star, grossly skewing the average rating and possibly affecting what unsuspecting potential buyers might think of this GREAT book.  The Hiketeia is a dark and depressing story, very much in the vein of classic Greek tragedies.  Wonder Woman grants sanctuary to a young woman, Danielle Wellys, and becomes bound to give Danielle protection without realising that Batman is after Danielle for having murdered several people who caused her younger sister's death.  The story resonates with Aeschylus's Oresteia, with its theme of duty and vengeance and their consequences - Orestes was commanded by the Gods, through Apollo's oracle at Delphi, to avenge the murder of his father, Agamemnon, by killing the murderer, his mother Clytemnestra.  He duly performed this horrendous duty, bringing the wrath of the Furies, ancient goddesses who hound murderers of blood kinsmen, upon his head in the bargain.  Orestes was in a no-win situation - had he failed to kill his mother, the Furies' wrath would have also descended upon his head for failing to avenge the murder of his father.  While the Oresteia ended on a happy note - Athena absolved Orestes of any misdeeds and placated the Furies by appealing to their egos - Greg Rucka goes one step further by giving The Hiketeia a bleak ending without any deus ex machina plot devices often used by the ancient Greeks.  While the characterisation of the Furies as scheming witches plotting Wonder Woman's downfall is contrary to what the ancient Greeks themselves would have thought of them, I greatly enjoyed this story for being true to Wonder Woman's roots in Greek mythology.  The colours used are muted to reflect the darkness of the story, but the art-work is gorgeous.  Go beyond the S&M cover of Wonder Woman's heel on Batman's face and you will discover a modern Greek tragedy well worth reading and re-reading several times.	2003-01-12
US	53078094	R1KJWVQEKZHE2T	7800051358	899460523	Creation of the Gods, Vol. 2	Books	5	16	17	N	N	More mythical mayhem than you can shake a magical banner at.	This was a translated version of the second major Chinese mythological epic that I read recently, the other being W.J.F. Jenner's excellent translation of &quot;Journey to the West&quot; (reviewed elsewhere, and equally worth reading).  &quot;Creation of the Gods&quot; is a story in two volumes (over a thousand pages in total).<br />Based on true historical events in ancient China three thousand years ago but given a major mythical twist, &quot;Creation of the Gods&quot; (or more accurately &quot;Canonization of the Gods&quot;) tells the story of the rebellion against, and the fall of, the degenerate and tyranical last emperor of the Shang Dynasty, the rise of the benevolent first emperor of the Zhou Dynasty, and the subsequent canonization of the fallen warriors of both sides as gods in the Chinese pantheon.<br />The story begins with King Zhou of the Shang Dynasty visiting the temple of Goddess Nu Wa, the creator of mankind, and insulting her with his lust by writing a love poem dedicated to her on the temple wall.  Greatly angered, the Goddess sends a beautiful fox-spirit to bewitch the king, causing him to indulge in all kinds of evil deeds and sensual pleasures, and to neglect his official affairs.  Encouraged by the fox-spirit, the king becomes increasingly degenerate and cruel, causing his officials to renounce him and to rebel against the Shang dynasty one after another, pledging their allegiance to King Wu of the Zhou dynasty and his prime minister, Jiang Ziya.<br />Bulk of the book deals with the war between forces loyal to the dying Shang dynasty and those of the rising Zhou dynasty.  Warriors with magical powers are applenty, and Chinese readers should have no problem recognising their beloved folk heroes and mythical gods, including such colorful characters as the Third Prince Nezha with his three heads and eight arms and his magical weapons (a lance, a ring, a coverlet and a pair of fire wheels) and his brothers Jinzha and Muzha, the warrior god Yang Jian (also called the Little Sage Erlang in &quot;Journey to the West&quot;) with his all-seeing mystical third eye, 72 magical transformations and his immortal demon-subduing dog (hey, the Chinese had a superdog three thousand years before Superman had Krypto!), Thunderbolt the thunder god, the four Heavenly Kings (commonly seen as temple guardians in Chinese Buddhist temples) and Li Jing, the pagoda bearing heavenly general.  These characters also make cameo appearances in &quot;Journey to the West&quot; (another good read!).<br />The chapters do get repetitive at times, with King Zhou committing ever more heinous crimes (such as tying loyal officials to red-hot burning bronze pillars for admonishing his behaviour, gouging the eyes of his queen and burning off her hands, cutting out the heart of his uncle, forcing his chief political rival to eat buns made from the flesh of said rival's own son, throwing innocent palace maids into pits full of poisonous snakes, cutting the legs off innocent citizens and splitting the bellies of pregnant women, to quote a few unsavory examples), while various and sundry warriors, magicians and spirits loyal to the Shang dynasty attempt to destroy the advancing Zhou army.  Still, I managed to read both volumes in less than a week, enthralled as I was with the unfolding story of the march of the rebel forces towards Zhaoge, the capital of the Shang dynasty.<br />For lovers of Chinese classics, this two-volume epic is a must for your collection.  For others unfamiliar with Chinese mythology and folk religion, the book may be a little difficult to appreciate at times, as it is chock-full of unbelievable superhuman feats from cover to cover.  Now you know why &quot;all Chinese people fly&quot; in Chinese swords and sorcery/fantasy movies.  *grin*	2001-07-02
US	53078094	R14UUPMMPSZ3BQ	780005134X	947568231	Creation of the Gods, Vol. 1	Books	5	10	12	N	N	More mythical mayhem than you can shake a magical banner at.	This was a translated version of the second major Chinese mythological epic that I read recently, the other being W.J.F. Jenner's excellent translation of &quot;Journey to the West&quot; (reviewed elsewhere, and equally worth reading).  &quot;Creation of the Gods&quot; is a story in two volumes (over a thousand pages in total).<br />Based on true historical events in ancient China three thousand years ago but given a major mythical twist, &quot;Creation of the Gods&quot; (or more accurately &quot;Canonization of the Gods&quot;) tells the story of the rebellion against, and the fall of, the degenerate and tyranical last emperor of the Shang Dynasty, the rise of the benevolent first emperor of the Zhou Dynasty, and the subsequent canonization of the fallen warriors of both sides as gods in the Chinese pantheon.<br />The story begins with King Zhou of the Shang Dynasty visiting the temple of Goddess Nu Wa, the creator of mankind, and insulting her with his lust by writing a love poem dedicated to her on the temple wall.  Greatly angered, the Goddess sends a beautiful fox-spirit to bewitch the king, causing him to indulge in all kinds of evil deeds and sensual pleasures, and to neglect his official affairs.  Encouraged by the fox-spirit, the king becomes increasingly degenerate and cruel, causing his officials to renounce him and to rebel against the Shang dynasty one after another, pledging their allegiance to King Wu of the Zhou dynasty and his prime minister, Jiang Ziya.<br />Bulk of the book deals with the war between forces loyal to the dying Shang dynasty and those of the rising Zhou dynasty.  Warriors with magical powers are applenty, and Chinese readers should have no problem recognising their beloved folk heroes and mythical gods, including such colorful characters as the Third Prince Nezha with his three heads and eight arms and his magical weapons (a lance, a ring, a coverlet and a pair of fire wheels) and his brothers Jinzha and Muzha, the warrior god Yang Jian (also called the Little Sage Erlang in &quot;Journey to the West&quot;) with his all-seeing mystical third eye, 72 magical transformations and his immortal demon-subduing dog (hey, the Chinese had a superdog three thousand years before Superman had Krypto!), Thunderbolt the thunder god, the four Heavenly Kings (commonly seen as temple guardians in Chinese Buddhist temples) and Li Jing, the pagoda bearing heavenly general.  These characters also make cameo appearances in &quot;Journey to the West&quot; (another good read!).<br />The chapters do get repetitive at times, with King Zhou committing ever more heinous crimes (such as tying loyal officials to red-hot burning bronze pillars for admonishing his behaviour, gouging the eyes of his queen and burning off her hands, cutting out the heart of his uncle, forcing his chief political rival to eat buns made from the flesh of said rival's own son, throwing innocent palace maids into pits full of poisonous snakes, cutting the legs off innocent citizens and splitting the bellies of pregnant women, to quote a few unsavory examples), while various and sundry warriors, magicians and spirits loyal to the Shang dynasty attempt to destroy the advancing Zhou army.  Still, I managed to read both volumes in less than a week, enthralled as I was with the unfolding story of the march of the rebel forces towards Zhaoge, the capital of the Shang dynasty.<br />For lovers of Chinese classics, this two-volume epic is a must for your collection.  For others unfamiliar with Chinese mythology and folk religion, the book may be a little difficult to appreciate at times, as it is chock-full of unbelievable superhuman feats from cover to cover.  Now you know why &quot;all Chinese people fly&quot; in Chinese swords and sorcery/fantasy movies.  *grin*ian (also called the Little Sage Erlang in &quot;Journey to the West&quot;) with his all-seeing mystical third eye, 72 magical transformations and his immortal demon-subduing dog (hey, the Chinese had a superdog three thousand years before Superman had Krypto!), Thunderbolt the thunder god, the four Heavenly Kings (commonly seen as temple guardians in Chinese Buddhist temples) and Li Jing, the pagoda bearing heavenly general.  These characters also make cameo appearances in &quot;Journey to the West&quot; (another good read!).<br />The chapters do get repetitive at times, with King Zhou committing ever more heinous crimes (such as tying loyal officials to red-hot burning bronze pillars for admonishing his behaviour, gouging the eyes of his queen and burning off her hands, cutting out the heart of his uncle, forcing his chief political rival to eat buns made from the flesh of said rival's own son, throwing innocent palace maids into pits full of poisonous snakes, cutting the legs off innocent citizens and splitting the bellies of pregnant women, to quote a few unsavory examples), while various and sundry warriors, magicians and spirits loyal to the Shang dynasty attempt to destroy the advancing Zhou army.  Still, I managed to read both volumes in less than a week, enthralled as I was with the unfolding story of the march of the rebel forces towards Zhaoge, the capital of the Shang dynasty.<br />For lovers of Chinese classics, this two-volume epic is a must for your collection.  For others unfamiliar with Chinese mythology and folk religion, the book may be a little difficult to appreciate at times, as it is chock-full of unbelievable superhuman feats from cover to cover.  Now you know why &quot;all Chinese people fly&quot; in Chinese swords and sorcery/fantasy movies.  *grin*	2001-07-02
US	53078094	R30X3196IBN5D4	1563895676	987902768	The Kingdom	Books	2	39	45	N	N	Bad, bad, bad!	Coming after the excellent \\"Kingdom Come\\", this must surely rank as the worst sequel ever written or published in the comics industry. <br />\\"The Kingdom\\" starts promisingly enough where \\"Kingdom Come\\" ended, a couple of decades in the future, with a very pregnant Wonder Woman about to give birth to the son of an older Superman on Paradise Island. The villain Gog appears, and after a brief battle with some of the younger surviving heroes from \\"Kingdom Come\\", manages to kidnap the newborn child, which he then brings back to the past (i.e. the present) for his own nefarious purposes. \\"As I am Gog, so you shall be my Magog\\". Will the baby boy become the very same Magog that precipitated the events in \\"Kingdom Come\\"?<br />Suffice to say, the rest of the story does not live up to the promise of that exciting first chapter. What follows is mostly author Mark Waid's personal rant against comic fans who insist on continuity in their favorite comic books as against comic fans who aren't opposed to reading \\"good\\" stories (i.e. the \\"kingdom of wonder\\" touted by \\"The Kingdom\\") regardless of whether such stories follow the established continuity of a comic book character's life.<br />The premise of \\"The Kingdom\\" is a good one, but the execution could have been much better. Plus, turning a story into a personal rebuke to a selected few in an audience who did not happen to concur with his views must have been the worst thing that an author could have done. And the art in the final chapter is really awful.<br />All in all, a very bad sequel that most fans of \\"Kingdom Come\\" must have wished had never seen the light of day. Alex Ross had minimal involvement, the blame is solely Mark Waid's.	2001-07-02
US	53078094	R397VJBXQ6RZRU	1568492421	833974061	Dear and Glorious Physician	Books	5	151	153	N	N	A human face for a Gospel writer	I read this book years ago, as a teenager struggling with my own inner demons.  It was one of the few books that made me cry, there were so many beautifully crafted scenes of humanity and redemption that resonated with what I was going through at that point in my life.  Luke's mixed feelings and sometimes disdain for his father echoed some of the same feelings that I had for my parents, and woken me to the shame of having such unworthy feelings.  Luke's lost of faith echoed my own inner struggles for identity, my constant feelings of inadequacy and unworthiness, and my then slowly dying faith in Christianity.  My favorite scene in the whole book was a little story Mary told Luke: Lucifer, the Morningstar (portrayed here as an infinitely beautiful angel whose perfection is only marred by his own pride), took a clump of soil from the earth and showed it mockingly to Jesus, indicating that everything Jesus strives for is nothing more than dirt.  Jesus then took up another clump of soil, and a plant grew and blossomed in his hand.  Somewhere along the way, during those difficult years, I had also come to realise that this world, this life I've been given, is full of beauty and worthy things to struggle for and cherish, if only I would open my eyes and see them.  I loved this book.  BUY IT if you wish to read a fictionalised but touching account of St. Luke's life.	2001-05-26
US	53078094	R3NS8RVJD7C7MW	7119016636	719242635	Journey to the West (Chinese Classics, Classic Novel in 4 Volumes)	Books	5	113	120	N	N	Wacky hijinks and humorous monkey business	Journey to the West is probably the most well-known tale amongst Chinese folk the world over.  It is a story that has been adapted in the form of operas, television series, cartoons and movies many times over.  To be able to read a complete and unabridged version of this epic is a joy indeed.  My only regret is that as a Western-educated Chinese, I am not able to read this masterpiece in it's original language.  Although the translator does a very good job at translating the book, I am sure many nuances and subtleties of the Chinese language have been lost in the translation.<br />The story is a simple one.  Set during the early Tang dynasty (the peak of Chinese civilisation), a holy Buddhist monk has to travel from China to India to collect the true Mahayana Buddhist scriptures from the Lord Buddha himself, in order to bring enlightenment to his fellow country men.  The journey is a long and ardous one, not least because numerous demons lie waiting in ambush for a chance to capture and eat the monk, as his holy body will confer immortality on whoever eats it.  Thus, the Goddess of Compassion assembles a strange group of bodyguards for the monk: the proud and mischievous Monkey, the lustful and greedy Pig, the loyal and steadfast Friar Sand, and a Dragon Prince transformed into a horse.  Their various adventures are so full of humor and wacky hijinks that I cannot help myself from laughing out from time to time.  Monkey is the ultimate Chinese version of the universal trickster-hero.  Do yourself a favor and pick up this book.  You will not regret it for a moment.	2001-02-22
