US	53074530	R30DV30S9VUQRY	1555838286	913192452	Dykes and Sundry Other Carbon-Based Life Forms to Watch Out For	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Not just for dykes, feminists, and liberals!	Hilarious, true-to-life comic strips for any human, not just dykes or feminists or liberals: Clarice and Toni are trying to raise their six-year-old son and find their sex life again; Ginger's dog is nearing the end of her life; English lit professor Sydney does what she can to try to get tenure; Jezanna is struggling with her independent bookstore Madwimmin and with menopause and with her elderly father; and Mo wonders if her life shouldn't be more than clerking at a bookstore that could go out of business any day. <br />Go to your favorite indie bookstore, read a few panels, and try to not laugh too loud, then buy it.Or trust me and the editorial reviews and buy it here! Buy 'em all (this is #10, but there are good introductions so you don't have to read them in order). After you're done smirking and giggling, they'll give you plenty to think about. Alison Bechdel is a goddess. <br />Kimberly Borrowdale<BR>Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-11-08
US	53074530	R1K9V4GQG2BQS9	0201408236	733679103	Divorced, Beheaded, Survived: A Feminist Reinterpretation Of The Wives Of Henry VIII	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Very readable, with new ideas to think about	This history/biography reads like a historical novel--Ms. Lindsey's prose is that smooth. The book tells the stories of each of Henry VIII's six wives--their stories as people, not just parts of Tudor England. Don't let the subtitle dissuade you--Lindsey did much of her research with primary resources yet turns many popular opinions on their ears, taking on such questions as \\"Were Anne Boleyn and Katherine Howard really immoral whores?\\" If you don't know a lot about this time period, you will learn it here; if you do, this book will give you some new twists to think about.<br />I zipped through this book in two days--it was that intriguing, and that readable...	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R3URZH5YVWQASI	0061082279	694014523	Shadow Prince (Harper Monogram)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Great Beauty &amp; The Beast Story	Ariel is a plastic surgeon who must take a one-year position at Fountainhead Foundation, an elite, resort-like hospital with strange elements: dusk curfew for staff (who must live on-site) and patients; a founder no one ever sees; and the roses that appear once a day with no notes in her locked office. Ariel sneaks out to take walks in the evening and encounter an enigmatic man who only give the name Jonah and never allows her to see his face.<br />This was a great story--sort of a Beauty and the Beast kind of thing--with great characters and great writing. The elements of mystery were good and the end truly caught me by surprise. The only problem I had with the book was that we didn't learn enough about Jonah at the beginning--we were told rather than shown what a special man he was.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale - Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R296EWOLI9INI8	1551668653	684993289	Getting Rid Of Bradley	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Yummy!	On the day the divorce from her womanizing husband, Bradley, is final, Lucy Savage can't stop looking at the dangerous looking man in the diner--so different from her banker ex. Maybe it's time to do something spontaneous instead of logical. Outside the diner, the dangerous looking man proves himself--by trying to mug her! Luckily, Lucy is able to fight him off with her physics textbook, and goes home feeling quite pleased with herself.<br />Zack Warren can hardly believe the woman he tried to protect from gunfire outside the diner actually assaulted him with her purse. He didn't even have time before she ran to tell her he was a cop. Now he has to figure out who was shooting at her and why, and what information she has about Bradley, the embezzler he's trying to catch.<br />When Lucy won't leave her home even though it would be safer for her to stay somewhere else (after all, she can't leave her three dogs), Zack stays with her to protect her, and the incendiary devices fly fast and furious. The fire between Lucy and Zack seems to be even stronger than the fire that Bradley--or someone--is throwing at them.<br />If you've read other books by Jennifer Crusie, you know about her quick humor, witty dialog, memorable characters, yummy love scenes, endearing pets...stories that you'll happily devour in one sitting. All those elements are present in this Romance Writers of America RITA award winner. If you haven't read Jennifer Crusie, don't wait another day: treat yourself to the queen of series romance and one of the most exciting novelists in any genre.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R4JQ7L04XUH6L	0316929085	768535927	Latitudes & Attitudes: An Atlas of American Tastes, Trends, Politics, and Passions : From Abilene, Texas to Zanesville, Ohio	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Amusing AND Useful!	This is a fun book, great entertainment (I was laughing like crazy when I was looking through it at the bookstore). The main reason I bought it was because my husband and I plan to move within the year, and I thought the book would be a good resource for helping us choose where to live--it is!<br />The book uses the 213 American consumer markets--the way the market research folks have sectioned off the country by consumer trends. For example, there's Northern Maine, Central Maine, Southern Maine/Vermont, about 12 sections in Calfornia, New Mexico is all one, and about 10 in Florida.<br />The first half of the book is maps with the sections color coded as to inhabitants' preferences for things like: fresh croissants vs. white bread, bagels, twinkies, books vs. tv, owners of power tools, owners of personal computers, cats, dogs, different kinds of cars, political leanings, what they watch on tv, what kind of car they drive, et cetera. There are 87 maps and 11 categories (eg Food, Sports, Cars, Television). Each map includes a commentary so we can learn why exactly snack nuts are much more popular north of the Mason-Dixon line and The Simpsons are more popular in the West.<br />The second half of the book highlights each of the 213 sections (half a page for each), telling what's hot and what's not, along with commentary on the general mood of the place,and statistics about socioeconomic makeup, median income and house price.<br />The consumer market designated as Seattle-Tacoma, Washington (actually most of the Western half of the state), is described (in part) thusly: &quot;Locals have the money to enjoy the 'good life': traveling abroad, enjoying gourmet cuisine--especially espresso from numerous coffee bars--and investing in stock, bonds, and real estate at some of the highest rates in the nation.&quot;<br />For Bangor, Maine (which includes the central portion of the state), the author says, &quot;The sterotypical New Englander--aloof, curt, idiosyncratic--is whatyou'll find in Bangor. Many are independent-minded professionals, retirees, and assorted blue-collar workers who keep to themselves.&quot;<br />The book also serves as a kind of armchair traveler--or a guidebook in knowing what to expect of the natives when traveling through the U.S. All in all, LATITUDES AND ATTITUDES is an entertaining way to learn more about the people of America--or to help choose a new place to live!<br />(and yes, we are now very happy in our new home state of Oregon :)<br />Kimberly Borrowdale - Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-06-17
US	53074530	RPEWVH87YISB0	0684802236	173765242	Moving To A Small Town: A Guidebook To Moving From Urban To Rural America	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Where and HOW to fit in to a different world	The authors are a couple who lived in Los Angeles and moved to a town in North Carolina that has a population of around 7,000. They are both career writers, but also bought an apple orchard. They discuss issues like: Are you right for small-town life? Scouting a new location; calculating the costs; making the move; recasting your career; and making a place for yourself in your new community.<br />MOVING TO A SMALL TOWN has been a godsend for my husband and me, as we are planning on moving from Santa Barbara, California, in the next year. (We'd like to buy a home, and it's not going to happen here!) For people who have lived in medium to large cities their whole lives, this book gives a serious introduction to what's different in small towns, like decreased anonymity and increased expectations for community involvement. We learned some helpful ideas for choosing where to live and some new ways to think about making a living. Much of this information can be used by someone thinking of moving to a larger city, as well--one still has to scout locations, think about work, and move. This book is a must for anyone thinking about relocating.<br />(and now that we finally have moved to a town of 8,500 -- a town very unlike Southern California towns, thank goodness! -- we love it even more than expected)<br />Kimberly Borrowdale - Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R3VUSPBLX5T6EL	0312972873	718885939	What Your Dog Is Trying To Tell You: A Head-To-Tail Guide To Your Dog's Symptoms & Their Solutions	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Medical info AND peace of mind!	WHAT YOUR DOG IS TRYING TO TELL YOU is an easy to use, easy to read, straightforward and practical guide to canine health. While of course no book can take the place of regular (and emergency if need be) visits to your dog's veterinarian, this book is a great help in deciding what the problem might be and whether it warrants a trip to the vet or whether it's something you can take care of at home (e.g. did the dog vomit because she has parvo or because she ate too much dinner too fast?). The book starts off with a section of symptoms that require emergency care, and includes a handy tear-out reference chart.<br />The remainder of the book is arranged in sections corresponding with parts of the dog's body, making it easy for the reader to find exactly what she is looking for, from Head and Neck to Tail and Anus. If one's dog is scratching, for example, it could be for any number of reasons other than fleas (what most people think of first when they see a dog scratching). Chapter 6 covers Hair and Skin, including several pages on scratching, which includes constant, rhythmic scratching; intense itching with redness and swelling of a particular area, and so on. The discussion of each symptom includes related symptoms, possible causes, care, and prevention.<br />There is also a chapter that addresses abnormal behaviors, and several appendices, including Checklist for Good Health, How to Perform a Weekly Home Exam, and Breed Disease Predilections.<br />WHAT YOUR DOG IS TRYING TO TELL YOU is a marvelous canine health guide for the layman that will provide not only needed medical information but also peace of mind for the dog owner...	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R8PBHC9LU82PW	0451190017	464603130	AN Unlikely Hero (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Charming Story That Kept Me Wondering	Gilbey Kentwell, Viscount Cranford, doesn't feel comfortable at the estate of the Duke of Roxley, but his friend Nicholas, the Duke's son, persuades him to come, saying that he needs Gilbey's assistance as a chaperon for the house party. Gilbey knows that a viscount without great wealth cannot be considered a proper suitor to the Duke's daughters, so he agrees to go, knowing there will be no pressure to woo.<br />Twins Venetia and Vivian are none too happy with their father's latest scheme to force them both to wed. However, perhaps this two week house party will turn up someone--two someones--they can content themselves with. The biggest problem is Vivian's secret illness: the girls feel they must find husbands before anyone finds out about her misunderstood condition, and Venetia has long since vowed to not marry until Vivian does as well.<br />Gilbey discovers that his friend's sisters are not only beautiful, but charming and intelligent as well. He is one of the few guests who can tell them apart; to him, it is easy to note their differences. Gilbey is reminded, however, not once but twice by the Duke that he is not there to court his daughters, only to round out the male/female ratio.<br />Gail Eastwood has written a compelling Regency with an important but not overpowering social message. It is also a fun twist on the twins theme, as the reader does not know for many pages which twin will end up with Nicholas. The girls are portrayed masterfully--the reader sees the differences in their personalities as easily as Nicholas does. Sympathetic characters and a story that keeps the reader wondering make AN UNLIKELY HERO a charming, enjoyable read.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale - Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R1HZE0CK9CJGA5	0061097535	571938042	Anger Kills: Seventeen Strategies for Controlling the Hostility That Can Harm Your Health	Books	4	38	41	N	N	An Easy-To-Use Guide	ANGER KILLS is a user-friendly book that combines practical skills with sound background information--starting with The Hostility Questionnaire in Chapter One &quot;Am I At Risk?&quot; which helps the reader identify her levels of Cynicism, Anger, and Aggression. The chapter also details two other methods for identifying danger levels of anger, The Hostility Log and The Hostility Roadmap.<br />Chapter Two &quot;The Facts About Hostility&quot; discusses the various important studies done not only on &quot;Type A&quot; people and behavior but also the medical evidence of the health risks of anger.<br />Chapters Three though Nineteen give one each of the 17 strategies, including: Reason with Yourself, Distract Yourself, Meditate, Avoid Overstimulation, Assert Yourself, Care for a Pet, Listen!, Be Tolerant, and Laugh at Yourself. Each chapter is organized into these sections: When to Use This Strategy, How to Use This Strategy, Why This Strategy Works, The ABCs of [e.g., Reasoning with Yourself], and Exercises.<br />It is obvious that ANGER KILLS is a labor of love as well as expertise. The Doctors Redmond (a husband and wife team) use examples from their own lives (not just the lives of their patients/clients) and relationship. Their writing style is clear, easy to follow, and empathic. Throughout the book, cartoons and quotations are used to illustrate key points. On the expertise side, he is director of behavioral research at Duke University Medical Center, and she is an author and historian.<br />ANGER KILLS is an easy-to-use guide to helping one's life become both healthier and happier.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale - Under the Covers Book Reviews	2003-06-17
US	53074530	R2R9ZKWVDQEMTI	0966800524	897389199	Brighton Honeymoon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Delightful characters &amp; wry humour	Miss Polly Hampton is turned off without a reference from her job as a clerk in a bookstore after she turns down the owner's offer of other duties. She had come to London to try to find her unknown father, whom her mother had always said was a gentleman of the Quality and had Polly's same red-golden hair and blue eyes. When she hears of the wealthy weaver Ethan Brundy, who was also an illegitimate orphan, she goes to his home to present herself as his long-lost sister. <br />Mr. Brundy knows his mother died not long after giving birth to him and that this Polly is just after a share of his fortune. His bride, Lady Helen, however, takes a liking to Polly, and so Mr. Brundy is forced to take Polly with them to Brighton on their wedding trip. He enlists the aid of his good friend Sir Aubrey Tabor to unmask the girl and/or scare her off, and Sir Aubrey's Mama decides that the Brighton sea air is just the thing to restore her health. <br />In Brighton the group goes to assemblies and routs, the seashore and the shops. Polly gathers quite a group of admirers, each of whom Sir Aubrey hopes will take her off their hands, even as he finds fault with each one. <br />I was thrilled to have the chance to spend more time with the endearing Brundys (whom we first met in THE WEAVER TAKES A WIFE) -- and was impressed by Ms. South's skill at never letting them overshadow Polly and the other characters. BRIGHTON HONEYMOON is a giddy romp filled with delightful people, wry humour, and surprising twists and turns. I am greatly looking forward to the next in this trilogy featuring everyone's favorite weaver. <br />Kimberly Borrowdale - Under the Covers Book Reviews	2002-11-11
US	53074530	R1TNK6OTM17TTC	080411952X	480474378	The Unsung Hero (Troubleshooters, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect balance of romance & suspense	Lt. Tom Paoletti undergoes massive head trauma during an assignment as a Navy SEAL. Even after he recovers physically, he is required to take a 30 day convalescent leave. Since his injury, he has been more short-tempered, which can be a symptom of such injuries. Other possible symptoms include paranoia, delusions, and hallucinations. Tom goes to visit his Great Uncle Joe, and sees an international terrorist in the airport at Boston. Or was it just his imagination? Tom wonders if he'll be able to go back to active duty as a SEAL and do his job properly. <br />Pediatrician Kelly Ashton has come home to small-town Massachusetts to care for her dying father, Charles. She is surprised to see Tom, although it was inevitable, as Charles and Joe have been best friends for nearly 60 years. Kelly still feels the same attraction for Tom that she did when she was a teenager, even though Tom left abruptly after one of the best nights of her life. <br />It's hard to say what exactly it is about Ms. Brockmann's books that appeal to me so much. I'm usually not big on military types, nor on suspense. I suppose it's that I care about these characters, and thus, about the situations into which they are thrown. With the huge threat of terrorism in today's real life, perhaps it is comforting to read about people like the SEALs who are trained to deal with such things. <br />The balance between romance and suspense is just about perfect, with secondary plots and interactions throughout. Joe and Charles drift off in their thoughts to their time fighting Nazis in France during WWII. Tom's teenage niece, Mallory, is trying to get out from the shadow of her irresponsible mother when a nerdy guy starts following her around (I have to admit I like him a lot :) Kelly tries to repair her relationship with her father before he dies. There is a lot going on, but Ms. Brockmann keeps all the threads hanging together superbly. <br />Whatever secret charm the author possesses, THE UNSUNG HERO kept meglued to the pages all evening. Don't start reading it on a day you must get other things done -- they won't get done. This is my favorite kind of book of all, one that grabs me and immerses me completely.	2002-11-07
US	53074530	RCSVY6UKR0W1T	0804119716	636903788	Out of Control (Troubleshooters, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I *had* to know what happened!	Savannah von Hopf has to go to Indonesia to save her beloved uncle from the hands of terrorists. But she's determined not to step into such a hotbed region of political danger alone; she plans to ask Navy SEAL (and ex-boyfriend of her friend Adele) Ken \\"Wild Card\\" Karmody to go with her. <br />As we readers tag along on this physically and emotionally demanding jaunt, we meet a large cast of other intriguing people. Molly Anderson, a missionary, and an American expatriate (and probably a smuggler) who will only give the name \\"Jones\\" both live on a small island in a remote corner of Indonesia. We read the memoirs of Savannah's grandmother, who was a double agent during WWII. Also involved to varying degrees are other members of Wild Card's SEAL Team Sixteen, FBI agents, self-appointed heads of state, and terrorists. Lots of terrorists. <br />Normally I wouldn't have read a book like OUT OF CONTROL -- I'm not generally into military characters or plots, not into suspense, not really even much into contemporary settings. But this book happened to cross my desk and I happened to look at the first page. Mentions of Star Trek and Yoda jumped out at me and carried me to page two, where Buddha was mentioned. All in the middle of a military training operation. I was hooked. I had to know what happened. And at the end of the book, I had to go find the other books about other members of SEAL Team Sixteen. Suzanne Brockmann is absolutely incredible.	2002-11-07
US	53074530	R2EWK9B19946UI	0451182057	44084401	The Runaways (Regency Romance, Signet)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Two Delightfully Different Love Stories	Barbara Hazard's THE RUNAWAYS is a delightfully different Regency.<br />After twenty years, widow Harriet Winthrop-Bates never thought she'd see Marsh Pembroke, Earl of Morland again--but here he is calling on her...and insisting that her daughter Lark has set her cap for his son and heir! When it is discovered that Lark and Drew are indeed quite in love and determined to marry even though neither is yet of age, Harriet and Marsh are equally determined to stop the match. Among other things, the marriage would mean that Harriet and Marsh would have to spend time together at various family gatherings. It's bad enough having to see each other at various social events this Season in London, for it only brings up memories of their own young love which ended abruptly two decades ago.<br />Barbara Hazard deftly handles two love stories in one: the young people and the lengths to which they go to be together--a madcap whirlwind of infatuation; and their parents and the feelings that haven't died, even after a score of years and marriages to other people--a touching story of deep love grown stronger. In most romances, the reader knows what will happen, if not how; but here, it is uncertain till the end which couple (or both? or neither?) will end up together.<br />This is a novel that should be required reading for everyone considering marriage--the story and themes are as true-to-life and applicable to modern audiences as they were to the people they depict nearly two centuries ago. Full of emotion, sympathetic characters, and the settings and facets of Regency life not often seen, THE RUNAWAYS is a book to be treasured, reread and kept on that special shelf of favorites.	2002-11-04
US	53074530	R2O375ZQ2X0AJB	0312979096	981996791	Now You See Me	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Exciting and true-to-life	On December 20th, Olivia is shopping in a bookstore with her seeing eye dog when she is overwhelmed by fear and a vision of a back room with an emergency exit door that says Toyland on it. She and her dog rush down the street to the toy store to tell the security guard that the missing girl is being held by a man in a back room of the store. But no child has been reported missing, and the guard is more concerned with shoplifters than with a woman who needs to go home and sleep off her binge.<br />When Detectives Max Callahan and Sam O'Reilly finally do come to Olivia's home to question her, it's as a possible suspect, not a witness -- how would she have known about the missing child unless she was an accessory to the crime, possible acting as a diversion? Olivia explains that she herself was abducted (and blinded during her ordeal) sixteen years ago to the day, and now sometimes sees and feels things from the perspective of other kidnapping victims. The officers clearly don't believe her, but there isn't much to go on in the case.<br />Tina Wainscott's romantic suspense (more suspense than romance) is true-to-life, never cliched nor predictable. Olivia and her dog Stasia are a delight, and the excitement of NOW YOU SEE ME kept me turning pages for a one-sitting read.	2002-11-04
US	53074530	R1FN4QMZZTLBAZ	055357874X	938405457	Finding Mr. Right	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Stunning, Humorous Success!	Lydia Keane is murdered while having an affair with her best friend's husband (the husband is also murdered). Before she is allowed to go to her eternal rest, however, Lydia must atone for her sins by finding a new husband for her now-widowed friend, Amy. The problem is that Lydia doesn't get to go back to earth in her own gorgeous body--she has to be in a dog's body. And not even a classy dog like an Afghan or an Irish Setter, but a short, scruffy, sausage-shaped Welsh Corgi.<br />As a stray Corgi, Lydia is adopted by Amy and named Miss Piggy. Amy, a freelance photographer who spends her weekends at dog shows and other people's weddings, was always the shy, bookish type without many boyfriends, but Lydia has *plenty* of experience with men... and before she knows it, sexy, wealthy, charming TV celebrity Tom Gordon is paying lots of attention to Amy--but so is Miss Piggy's new veterinarian, Jeff Berenger: definitely not rich, nor very stylish or handsome (not to mention those two holier-than-thou Border Collies he owns). How can Lydia/Miss Piggy steer Amy in the right direction when she is a prisoner in Amy's home (and has to deal with Amy's other two Corgis) and can't even talk?<br />When I first heard about this book, I was pulled two ways about reading it. Being a lover of both dogs and romances, I loved the premise--but I knew I would be disappointed if the author couldn't pull it off. Thank goodness I took the risk--Ms. Carmichael more than pulls it off, she makes it stunning. All of the characters--primary and secondary, human and canine--are multi-dimensional and well-rounded. Dog lovers will enjoy the dog shows, herding trials, and interpretation of canine senses; romance lovers will enjoy the building relationships, sexual tension, and, yes, actual dating (it seems that in many romance novels, characters never go on any dates, just fall into each other's arms). Ms. Carmichael makes a humorous premise believeable, and I'm ready to read more of her books, whether they have dogs in them or not.	2002-11-04
US	53074530	R36MGKPZOCBWDO	0505522357	789604311	Santa Paws	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Loving pets in loving stories	This fun anthology gives us four different novellas, each including a Christmas setting and delightful dogs. We get to understand people and events from the dogs' points of view and their uncanny senses--and the way they can sometimes gently nudge their people together. Loving pets combine with loving stories to make a marvelous combination that's a great read any time of year.<BR> <BR>Victoria Alexander starts off with &quot;Shakespeare and the Three Kings,&quot; set in 19th century England. Sir Oliver Stanhope's great aunt, the woman who raised him so lovingly, has died and left Oliver charged with the care of her three beloved Yorkshire Terriers, Melchoir, Balthazar, and Gaspar. She has also arranged for one D.K. Lawrence to come and train the Yorkies for him. When Diana Lawrence, once the love of Oliver's life, shows up at his home with her Great Dane Shakespeare in tow, Oliver wonders at his Aunt Ellie's true motives--but of course goes along with his aunt's last wish. Lady Eleanor's hopes for her nephew to find true love tug at the reader's heart--be sure to have a hanky ready.<br />In &quot;Athena's Christmas Tail&quot; by Nina Coombs, Athena that knows her mistress, Mercy, isn't as happy as she should be, especially since she is newly married. And Viscount Brockton acts strangely towards his bride, as well. Athena knows he likes his new wife, but why is he so distant from her? When they buy Hannibal from a cruel master, the two dogs put their noses together to try to get their master and mistress to see what any dog can tell immediately--that they really do care for each other. Another sweet, emotional story.<br />We move to the present day for &quot;Away in a Shelter&quot; by Annie Kimberlin, a funny, original twist on the snowed-in-log-cabin story. When they signed up to volunteer for the Christmas holidays at the animal shelter, neither Camille nor Roger realized they'd be sharing duty with the volunteer they liked least: the snobby lady lawyer and the big guy who always looked at her like she was a pariah. Both of them want to adopt the little dog who was left on the steps of the shelter; Camille calls her Gracie and Roger calls her Splinter. When the snow storm doesn't allow Camille and Roger to leave the shelter on Christmas Eve, they are forced to get to know each other as human beings--and find not only do they have a love of dogs and cats in common, but that they actually enjoy each other's company, and made some bad assumptions about each other at the outset. This is one of the best contemporary romances I've read all year. The characters and setting are all so very real, likeable and sympathetic. I was very sorry to see this story end and am very much looking forward to more from Ms. Kimberlin. (Writing as Annie Smith as of October 2002, with a new novel out -- yahoo!)<br />Miriam Raftery wraps it up with &quot;Mr. Wright's Christmas Angel,&quot; which opens in present-day Los Angeles. Joy is upset that she won't be able to fulfill her daughter's fondest Christmas wish: she wants a daddy. The Santa Claus at the hospital that Joy has just been fired from gives Joy two airline tickets to Alaska, saying that perhaps a vacation from insurance forms and administration is just what she and her daughter Holly need. When Joy and Holly reach Noel, Alaska, the location of the cabin of Kriss Kringle, where they are to be guests for a few days, their rental car runs into a snowbank--they'll have to walk to the cabin. A big white dog, Frankincense, finds them and leads his master, Nicholas, Mr. Kringle's caretaker, to them. Nicholas is kind, if gruff and old-fashioned, not understanding what Joy means by &quot;car&quot; and &quot;telephone.&quot; In fact, Joy marvels, Mr. Kringle's cabin has no electricity, no plumbing, and of course no phone. What kind of strange neighborhood have she and Holly been brought to? When a blizzard makes travel even out to the road impossible, Joy, Nicholas, and Holly all have more time to get to know each other... and like what they find. A happy story and satisfying end to this collection.	2002-11-04
US	53074530	RINW634OBX53G	0451198646	969164431	The Bargain	Books	5	87	92	N	N	No One Does It Like Mary Jo Putney	According to her father's will, Lady Jocelyn Kendal must marry by age twenty-five if she is to receive her inheritance--if she does not, her home and her fortune will go to her aunt and uncle. With only four weeks left now until her birthday, Jocelyn has no suitors that she could stand being married to her whole life that she could bring up to scratch so quickly.<br />Major David Lancaster was gravely wounded at Waterloo--he is paralyzed from the waist down and is dying. His main concern is for his sister, a governess, who will be left all alone after his death.<br />When a friend of the family mentions Major Lancaster to Lady Jocelyn, a plan springs to mind--one that might benefit her as well as the Major...<br />For those of you who have read Mary Jo Putney's books before, I need only assure you that THE BARGAIN is well on par with the usual incredible no-one-else-does-it-like-Putney style that we love so much. For those of you who haven't read a Mary Jo Putney novel yet, this is the perfect one to start with. That Putney style includes sympathetic characters who are not without their foibles and wounds (both outside and in); a range of emotions that are realistic, never manipulated; and such smoothness in storytelling that one easily forgets she is reading, rather than right there in Regency England.<br />THE BARGAIN is an expansion and rewriting of the small traditional Regency THE WOULD-BE WIDOW, first published by Signet in 1989. I had not yet read the original--I was saving it for a rainy day when I needed a guaranteed great read--and to me, THE BARGAIN contains nothing superfluous, no obviously-tacked-on subplots, no detours from the relationship between Jocelyn and David. There is a sweet secondary romance--no, make that two secondary romances--but they serve to enhance the main attraction and nev er distract. I savored all 373 pages of delving deeply into these people's minds and hearts.<br />Ms. Putney should be applauded not only for being a marvelous writer and craftsman, but for all the happiness she brings to millions of readers worldwide. I thank you once again, Mary Jo, not only for a glorious evening, but for all the warmth and joy your characters, their stories, and their worlds give me long after I've closed the book with a happy sigh.	2002-11-04
US	53074530	R1PR1K0J686IF3	0821773704	722591682	Home Again	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Real Characters With Real Quirks (that's just the humans!)	When Sally's best friend since childhood, Deb, asks Sally to care for her newborn child &quot;if anything ever happens,&quot; Sally says of course...just as most of us would, feeling honored even though we know it would never come about. However, one day something does happen -- and Sally is to have the care of fourteen-year-old orphan Micah and his high-energy dog, Sophie. Sally loves Micah as her own and has watched him grow up, but she's at a loss for what to do for a grieving teenage boy, and she dislikes dogs. A lot. Always has. Her three cats don't like them either.<BR><BR>Luckily Sally has some marvelous friends (most of whom we've met in previous books (written under the pen name Annie Kimberlin), so they feel like friends to me, too) who help her with Micah and Sophie and introduce her to Tanner Dodge, trainer extraordinaire, &quot;The God of All Things Dog.&quot;<BR><BR>Although the spine of HOME AGAIN says romance, there is so much more going on here.  I'm amazed at how much Ms. Smith is able to put into 381 pages. I just wish there could have been so many more, as this was one of those books that I didn't want to end! Obviously there are pets in the story -- and these pets are not just window dressing; they are secondary characters who affect other characters and the storyline. We get to see a sort of &quot;Disneyland for Cats,&quot; service dogs working and being trained, pet dogs going to all kinds of fun places and competing in shows and obedience, and some really big goldfish (find out Sally's secret for getting them so big and long-lived!)<BR><BR>There are a lot of relationship interactions here: long-term friendship (between humans *and*  animals); learning to trust others as new friends; parents who are no longer a part of one's life for various reasons; extended family; and of course the strange and strained not-quite-Mother/Son, not-quite-Aunt/Nephew dynamic between Sally and Micah.<BR><BR>If I had to choose one thing that has made Annie Smith one of my very favorite writers of contemporary novels, it would have to be her characters -- her human characters. I love books with pets, but even more than that, I love books with characters who are people I'd like to be friends with. Sally and Sylvie and Karen and Jessie are all people with great quirks that I can relate to -- Sally has magnetic poetry on her refrigerator and talks back to the television, correcting the grammar of the TV weather person. There are references to Star Trek, Monty Python, Girl Scout Thin Mint cookies, the Cat Who books, art dolls, and just how goofy-but-lovable Bulldogs can look while competing in Obedience.<BR><BR>But you don't need to be quirky nor a pet lover to enjoy HOME AGAIN. Anyone who likes novels with serious depth, a range of emotions, and many, many dimensions of real life will find Annie Smith an author to read and keep.	2002-11-01
US	53074530	R2HPDKP2MPTMIV	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Beyond the Norm	Merry Vance, daughter of the Duke of Monmouth, is being forced to marry against her will. Then she realizes a way out: she offers to pose for talented artist and notorious rake Nicholas Craven. No gentleman would ever take to wife a female who has posed nude!<BR><BR>Merry makes it clear to Nic that she will only pose for him; she is not offering any other services. Nevertheless, the flames of desire smoulder between the two from the very beginning. Merry knows that Nic rarely keeps a woman for long and has no heart to give, but she can't help but taste the luscious forbidden fruit.<BR><BR>BEYOND SEDUCTION lives up to its title by going beyond the norm for romance. It's the most wicked and daring romances I've read in a long time. Ms. Holly's style is not one of milk-and-water-miss euphemism,but seriously earthy erotica. As steamy and hot as it gets, however, the characters are never overshadowed by the lusty scenes -- the reader feels for Merry and her plight, and sees to the depths of Nic's artist's soul. Twists and turns of both plot and pulchritude make BEYOND SEDUCTION a standout.<BR><BR>Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews<BR>	2002-10-10
US	53074530	R16HJ6P8ZK2ZVL	0451193873	799539445	A Regency Christmas Carol (Super Regency, Signet)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Christmas with some of our favorite Regency authors	This heart-lifting volume collects the storytelling talents of some of Signet's most beloved Regency authors, all spinning tales with Christmas carols as a central part of the yarn. These talented ladies pack into less  than one hundred pages each an emotional wallop that is rarely found in  novellas--sure to please even readers who do not usually find the depth  they hope for in anthologies.<br />Mary Balogh starts us off with &quot;The  Bond Street Carolers&quot; in which Lord Heath, who dislikes Christmas,  stops in his tracks on Bond Street to hear a boy's angelic voice raised in  song. Lord Heath decides that this young man must perform at his annual  winter concert--but the boy's mother, Fanny Berlinton, does not want her  son exploited. Little Katie Berlinton sees the tall man enjoying her  brother's singing, and renews her wish for a Papa for Christmas. Even  readers who do not normally care for children intruding on their romance  will be enchanted by the parts these two take in this delighful story.<br />In  &quot;The Earl's Nightengale&quot; by Edith Layton, a young woman pawns a  musical mechanical bird left to her by the grandmother she never met--a  gift that her grandmother said would bring her happiness. When she goes  back a week later, as promised, to pay the loan and reclaim her heirloom,  it is gone. She catches up with the Earl of Elliott, who purchased it,  because it is her only link with her grandmother, and because she and her  mother could certainly use some happiness right now. Ms. Layton's  Nightengale is a charming gift to her readers, topped with an extra-special  bow of an ending.<br />Next up is Elisabeth Fairchild with &quot;The Mistletoe  Kiss.&quot; On St. Thomas's Day, five days before Christmas, governess  Constance Conyngham is convinced by her young charges to take them &quot;a  gooding&quot;--but they did not expect to encounter Lord Deleval at The  Devil's Keep, and everyone was even more surprised when he showed up the  thebell-ringers' rehearsal. This is a heartening story of two wounded  souls who can perhaps heal each other.<br />In &quot;Make a Joyful Noise&quot;  by Carla Kelly, Lord Wythe is charged by his mother to help recruit new  choir members for the annual competition between the churches of the  neighboring shires. One of his first requests is to Rosie Wetherby, but  soon he is ent ranced by more than just her beautiful voice... and Ms.  Kelly's readers are entranced as well with the relationship that  blossoms.<br />Anne Barbour concludes this collection with &quot;Melody&quot;  in which American Josh Weston, now Earl of Sandbourne, meets his match in  Melody Fairfax, companion to the dowager countess. We are emotionally  involved from the beginning as we watch these two meet and quickly find a  fearsome affinity towards each other. In a collection of masters of the  Regency subgenre, Ms. Barbour shines as the star atop the tree.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R2EW39NUR6WOC7	0312962657	448361980	Emergency!: True Stories From The Nation's ERs	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Non-fiction that reads like a page-turner thriller	EMERGENCY! is nonfiction that reads like a page-turner novel. This book contains over 100 vignettes written by emergency room doctors and nurses all over the country. Some are dark and sad, some are hopeful and  uplifting, most are gruesome, and all are so compelling that you can't help  but go on to the next. I don't think I have a particular penchant for  morbidity, but I read this book in one afternoon.<br />There are stories of  GOMERs (Get Out of My Emergency Room), elderly people barely hanging on to  life who must be resusitated; patients with DSB (Drug-Seeking Behavior),  who come in with an imagined complaint in hopes of getting narcotics; SIDS  (Sudden Infant Death Syndrome) babies; mothers having babies in cars;  severed body parts; Code Blues; people with, er, complaints of a personal  nature.<br />We meet a young man who needs a blood transfusion thanks to a  stab wound, but won't get one because he carries a card in his wallet that  states he's a Jehovah's Witness. Gastroenterologists try out their new toy;  interns try to intubate patients; lab techs faint in patients' laps;  everyone works long hours.<br />EMERGENCY! brings us straight into the ER,  where we know the stress of trying to keep patients alive, and the anguish  of family, friends, and staff left behind when it can't be done. You will  cry, you will laugh, you will wonder why you are reading this book--but  once you've started it, read it you will.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the  Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	RKXUW35I3MGUK	0449002055	427598558	Dove's Way	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A powerful, compelling read	Finnea Winslet was born in Boston, but it's only a faint memories and the stuff of her father's stories, as she's spent most of her life with him in the Congo. When her father passes away, she realizes it's time to go back  to Boston and find the mother's love that she's missed all these years. On  the train she meets Matthew Hawthorne, who the Africans call The Wild White  Man with the Scar. Their meeting eventful but brief. When their paths  unexpectedly cross again, it's at a dinner party where Finnea is at a loss  for how to act--she knows none of the rules of Boston society, like which  cutlery to use, how to greet people, how to eat certain foods, how to sit,  how to walk, how to dress...<br />Matthew feels something for Finnea, tho he  doesn't know what or why. When she later badgers him to help her learn the  how to be a lady he finally gives in--but he wonders if it can even be done  and why she would want to change from who she is. DOVE'S WAY is the story  of two wounded--both physically and emotionally--people drawn to each other  but unwilling to suffer again the pain of loving. As Ms. Lee says in her  the short interview at the back of the book (and how I love hearing tidbits  like this from an author!) this novel is &quot;part MY FAIR LADY, part OUT  OF AFRICA.&quot;<br />I did have problems with this book, especially early on.  I sometimes had difficulty believing people could be *so* cruel; both  Boston society's reaction to Matthew and his scar (tho he was foul-tempered  and scowled frequently) and Finnea's family in not trying to help her fit  in and learn the manners and mores of Boston. I also would have liked to  spend more time in Africa, but I know how publishers are afraid of romances  not set in either America or Great Britain. However, DOVE'S WAY is a great  choice when one is in the mood for a powerful, darkly compelling  read.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R25RS632THUDI6	0446604984	836655068	Defiant	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Red-hot Western sexual tension	Hannah Louise Barkley was happy with her life as an attorney in New York City. She never thought to return to her hometown of Misery, Texas, but return she does when her father becomes ill. She just hopes that she will  be able to avoid Travis Bodine, who broke her heart five years  ago.<br />Travis can hardly believe that Hannah Louise has returned to Misery.  He was finally getting over her breaking his heart and getting on with his  life, and he has other things to worry about now: his brother Rafe has been  accused of murder, and has asked Travis to be his lawyer, even though  Travis' experience is in civil law, not criminal law.<br />When Hannah Louise  finds out about the Bodines' predicament, she considers offering her  assistance as cocounsel. Criminal law is her expertise and she has been  very successful at it. Of course, her offer would no doubt injure Travis'  pride, and it wouldn't be easy to work together and ignore their shared  past, but proving Rafe's innocence and saving his life are more  important.<br />Millie Criswell is a master of sexual tension and DEFIANT is  no exception. The trial aspect of the plot is exciting and keeps the reader  rapidly turning pages, but the serious passion between Travis and Hannah is  never overshadowed. Add a variety of secondary characters, including a  sweet secondary romance, the Western setting that Ms. Criswell paints so  colorfully, and you have an outstanding one-sitting read. DEFIANT is the  third in The Lawmen trilogy, but there is absolutely no need to read the  previous two, DANGEROUS and DEPERATE, before diving into DEFIANT--but, like  me, you'll probably want to reach for those first two after you've read  this one!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R8UGDL3JQGC3G	0451199979	234694502	Devilish	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Even better than I hoped it would be	If you, like me, have been waiting for Rothgar's story and wondered if this book would be as magnificent as we hoped, the answer is: Better! Order it now.<br />If you haven't read Jo Beverley's other Malloren stories and  wonder who Rothgar is, please allow me to introduce you: <br />Bey Malloren,  Marquess of Rothgar, has been head of his household and self-appointed  protector of his siblings since he was nineteen years old. Now that they  are all happily married, can Rothgar relax and enjoy his own life, perhaps  enter wedded bliss himself? Of course not... not only does his have his  duties to his tenants, he is one of King George's most trusted advisors,  and even though the war with France is officially over, there are still  many who need his skills and protection. Besides, his blood is tainted and  he's vowed never to marry. <br />Diana Westmount is Countess of Arradale in  her own right, inherited through her father's line in one of those rare and  ancient decrees that allows the title to go to a female. She, too, has  duties to her people and knows that if she ever marries she will lose her  independence and power to help others--not to mention some of her unusual  hobbies, like honing her shooting and fencing skills. <br />Diana has  petitioned the king to allow her to take the Arradale seat in Parliament  along with the other peers--but King George is aghast and realizes he must  get this strange, headstrong woman married off so that a man will be  legally in control of her. <br />These strong characters are complemented by  Ms. Beverley's equally strong storytelling skills, including realistic  historical background that isn't sugarcoated; intrigue that rounds out the  plot but doesn't overpower the love story; and, perhaps her greatest gift,  depth of emotion. We readers slowly learn the hearts and minds of the  people in this novel, even as they are learning and growing themselves. We  can identify with the feelings of honor and responsibility as wellas the  yearnings for friendship, love, and belonging--oh yes, and passion--not  just sex, not just lust, but true passion of the spirit.  Reading DEVILISH  is several glorious hours of immersion in Georgian England, and Jo Beverley  is a tour guide like no other. After you emerge from DEVILISH, you will  want to read the other Malloren books, whether for the first time or the  tenth--and you will thank the gods that the journey isn't over yet; there  will be more. <br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	RLS2Y2Z4IXLQW	0446601756	572440040	Bride	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Marvelous characters but too much secret past subplot	Justine is a spinster, well on the shelf at thirty-five. Nevertheless, she decides to write a book for young women telling them what to expect in courtship and marriage--to the smallest intimate detail. She asks her old  friend Struan to help her learn what she needs to know to put in the book;  she'd also like to help him raise his two children. Justine has lusted in  her heart after Struan, but knowing that he does not reciprocate, she feels  she will be able to control her actions if not her thoughts.<br />Struan has  been receiving threats concerning a mysterious past... and now Justine  shows up, unescorted, at his doorstep and wants him to teach her--purely  for research, of course--the ways of love.<br />I *loved* Justine and her  book. She does not allow herself to be pushed around, but is charming and  caring, and her book and &quot;research&quot; are wonderfully hilarious.  She considers herself a cripple due to a childhood accident; Struan tries  to downplay this and show her she is a whole woman--the developement of  this aspect is wonderful. The love scenes between the two were as good as I  was expecting from what I'd heard of Stella's writing--yum! <br />Sometimes I  felt that the secret past subplot overshadowed the romance and I wanted to  get on with things, but overall this story and these marvelous characters  are well worth it. This is the third book in the Rossmara quartet (I've  been badgering Stella to make it a quintet), but you certainly don't have  to read the books in the order they were written--they stand alone very  well.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R23711937P4UYH	067900436X	761548448	Compass American Guides : Maine	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Next best thing to going there	Charles Calhoun's MAINE is a departure from most travel guides. Rather than just pages and pages of lists of motels, restaurants, and things to see, Calhoun focuses on the state's people (past and present), natural  history, and state-of-mind. Instead of simply an address and phone number  for the famous L. L. Bean's (outdoor outfitters, for example, Calhoun gives  us several pages, including the story of the founder of the company. <br />The  book opens with a chapter entitled &quot;Learning Maine&quot; and is  organized geographically into nine main sections which cover the entire  state. The final chapter, &quot;Practical Information&quot; gives all the  usual, plus &quot;A Dozen Fun Places to Eat&quot; and antiquarian  booksellers. Scattered throughout the book are literary excerpts and  topical essays by authors such as May Sarton, John McPhee, and Longfellow.  There are maps, reproductions of period art, and plenty of gorgeous color  photos. Whether the reader is planning a trip to Maine or merely wishes an  intriguing armchair journey, this guide is a must.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale,  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R33OGBP0Y04W4Y	0451195353	182795656	Cupid's Kiss (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One of the most imaginative Regency authors	Eros, the god of love--sometimes called Cupid-- has less than year to find his wife, Psyche, who's been missing for over one thousand years. If he doesn't, the gods will fade and the mortal world will be in  turmoil--already the weather is unusually harsh this spring because of the  waning power of the gods. Psyche Hathaway will be sorry to see her friend  Harry (as she started calling him when she was young because she couldn't  pronounce Eros) married, but knows that he must find his wife, the goddess  for whom Psyche Hathaway was named. Both she and Harry wish that she were  that wife, but Harry knows that his wife would never forget him, not even  after one thousand years--and Miss Hathaway has no recollection of any  previous life or incarnation.<br />Readers who have enjoyed watching Psyche  and Harry's friendship blossom over Ms. Harbaugh's two previous Regencies,  CUPID'S MISTAKE and CUPID'S DARTS (starring Psyche's sister and brother,  respectively), will relish the culmination of their relationship. Not all  laughter and fun, CUPID'S KISS portrays the deep love of two people who  have to sacrifice their own feelings for the greater good. Even readers who  had not met Psyche and Harry before this novel will be feeling tugs at  their hearts right along with these two memorable and intensely human  characters. CUPID'S KISS is a stunning, emotional conclusion to this  trilogy by one of the subgenre's most imaginative authors.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	RQFK0NNBO60D7	0451191226	833579521	The Rakehell's Reform (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An emotional look at the creative, artistic side of life	Jack Ramsay has just lost his entire family's fortune on the turn of a card--and before he's even outside his club, this gossip has been added to his reputation that has named him Rakehell Ramsay. Nevertheless he can't  resist another wager, and on such, goes to the debut ball of a merchant's  daughter and plays the cello--which brings guests in from the streets and  turns a failed come-out into a great success. <br />Selina Preston knows her  father just wants the best for her, but she would prefer to marry for love  than to marry one of the high-born fortune hunters who comes to her ball  only interested in her dowry and her father's money. <br />When Mr. Preston  hires Jack as Selina's music master, both Jack and Selina are determined to  not be thrown together by Mr. Preston's machinations. But Selina is drawn  to Jack's gorgeous, emotional music, and Jack is awed and impressed by  Selina's talented sketches of the real side of him.<br />Elisabeth Fairchild  has penned another winner, full of heart-throbbing emotion. Her  descriptions of Jack's music are glorious--another example of a heart-felt  look at the creative, artistic side of life. THE RAKEHELL'S REFORM is a  story worthy of the Ramsey family line.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the  Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	RF9BLYKNCW0YG	037376281X	121931732	Whole Lot Of Love (Silhouette Desire, 1281)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Another RITA award for Justine Davis?	Layla Laraway telephones Ethan Winslow asking if he'd be willing to be auctioned off at a date auction fundraiser for Alzheimer's research. Ethan is captivated by Layla's silky, sensual voice and her equally smooth,  friendly but persuasive manner.<br />Layla knows how it will be when Ethan  sees her in person, though; it happens every time. His face will register  his shock and disappointment that her body doesn't match her sexy voice.  After all, she is a big woman--5' 10&quot; and not at all thin. I picked  this book up at the recommendation of Mona and others on Romance Readers  Anonymous--I was so glad to finally find a romance with a large size  heroine!<br />However, at first, I felt kind of gyped that this large size  heroine was probably only a size 14, maybe 16 (numbers aren't given). To  me, a size 28, that's almost as alien as a size 8! At first I felt like,  &quot;What the hell is she bitching about, she probably doesn't weigh more  than 160 or maybe 175 at most!&quot; But then I remembered how I felt back  in the days when I was that size--I thought I was huge, and everyone else  thought I was too, and didn't hesitate to tell me. I had boyfriends just  like the jerk Layla dated, Wayne. So I got to be okay with Layla being big  but not super size. However, I still feel kind of sold out that her  physical fitness was so emphasized. Yes, being fit is A Very Good Thing,  and certainly one needs to be fit to sail (as she and Ethan do)... but it  made me feel like, okay, she's fit so that makes her being large  acceptable--if she wasn't fit, she wouldn't be acceptable.<br />Overall I'm  VERY pleased that Justine wrote this and that it got published. I know that  a few years ago editors and agents felt that the market wasn't ready for a  queen size heroine. I'm glad that someone big (different kind of big ;) and  respected in the genre (Justine has won a few RITAs) could start pushing at  the market limits and show that yes, we readers want some characters like  this! It's a step in the right direction, just not as big a step as I had  hoped.<br />I am also impressed by the cover. I usually ignore covers as best  I can because the artist's renderings rarely match up with the picture I  have of the characters in my mind's eye. On this one, the heroine is  actually shown as described--black dress, blond hair up (tho I hope she did  the front of it better than the artist did), and--gasp!--not thin!  Not fat  by any means, but very curvy and well-rounded. Yay! <br />A WHOLE LOT OF LOVE  isn't just for big women, of course--it's for anyone who likes a touching  story of real people, told by a master who not only gives her characters  growth, but teaches the reader more about herself. I enjoyed Layla and  Ethan's banter and the way they *talked* to each other (and listened!) and  had a good time together. The Alzheimer's part (both Layla and Ethan work  in different aspects of Alzheimer's research) was VERY well done--one scene  near the end brought tears to my eyes--and I think could serve well as a  guidebook of how to act and not act around people afflicted by Alzheimer's  and similar conditions. <br />Thanks to the folks on RRA-L for the heads up on  this book. Thanks to Silhouette for publishing it. And very very big thanks  to Justine Davis for writing it--I think for this one you deserve another  RITA.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R3F0GN8T6I65ST	0451195787	288709804	The Poet and the Paragon (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An eye-opening tour of the London we seldom see	Ten years ago, when she was seventeen, vicar's daughter Rebecca Creighton was jilted at the altar by Viscount Elmont. Now she writes tracts and speaks on moral living, making not quite enough money to support herself  and her two younger siblings--until Elmont sends round a note once again  proposing marriage. Rebecca has no wish to marry, especially the man who  jilted her, but she feels it is her duty do do so in order to care for her  family.<br />A riot breaks out after one of Rebecca's speaking engagements in  an unsavory part of town, but a handsome, capable-looking man dressed in  the clothes of a clerk or upper servant comes to her aid. Getting her back  to her home on the other side of the city with bodily safety *and*  reputation intact will be no easy task.<br />To say more of this plot would be  to diminish the reader's joy in discovering it for herself. Suffice to say  that the greater portion of Ms. Boucher's latest does not take place in the  usual haunts of the nobility. Nor is this just another  woman-in-peril-rescued-by-handsome-stranger story. Ms. Boucher's regencies  are always decidely non-traditional, and this novel is no exception.  Readers might at first wonder (as this reviewer did) if such a paragon of  virtue would be a very sympathetic character--but indeed she is. Most of  the novel has Rebecca and her would-be hero (who only gives the name  Michael) together--and getting to know each other. THE POET AND THE PARAGON  is an eye-opening tour of London that delves deeply into the main  characters while at the same time providing action and tension--definitely  a one-sitting read.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R2W8UDMS1QQG0V	0515120669	306225313	A Spirited Seduction (Haunting Hearts)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A witty, heart-warming read	Sabrina Simmons is responsible for the welfare of her two young brothers now that her parents have passed away. All they have is Simmons House, but if they don't make the mortgage, their home will be sold to the neighboring  Viscount Colbridge. Sabrina kno ws it is up to her to somehow save her  brothers' inheritance. She formulates a plan to seduce Lord Colbridge and  become his mistress in exchange for him paying off the mortgage on Simmons  House. But Sabrina, who has read a great many books, knows nothing of men.  Accounts of Helen of Troy, Cleopatra, and Theodora, Empress of Byzantine,  all leave out one important part: *how* the seduction is accomplished.  Sabrina realizes that what she needs is a tutor. Little does she realize  that one will be provided for her.<br />Richard, Viscount Colbridge, is not  quite sure what to make of Miss Sabrina Simmons. The first time they meet,  she quotes Horace and demonstrates her knowledge of David Hume and Samuel  Johnson. The next time, Sabrina is wearing a low-cut gown and heavy  cosmetics; fluttering her eyelashes like she is trying to flirt; and  prattling inanely about the weather. Curiosity breaks through Richard's  ennui as he wonders which is the real Sabrina.<br />Like A GHOST OF A CHANCE,  Ms. Claybourne's previous Haunting Hearts book, A SPIRITED SEDUCTION is a  real charmer. Casey Claybourne writes the best ghosts since Charles  Dickens--and hers are funnier. But don't read it just for the endearing  ghost; A SPIRITED SEDUCTION is full of sensual romance and emotion, as well  as a sidetrip to a part of London that readers (and ladies of the time!)  rarely see. A witty, heart-warming read!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the  Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R2RDMNWNXHT1AX	0064405842	363282330	Catherine Called Birdy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What a great view of Medieval life!	Birdy is the fourteen-year-old daughter of a knight and the sister of a monk, who has taught her to read and write, and suggested &quot;that writing this account of my days will help me grow less childish and more  learned...&quot; At first her accounts are short:<br />&quot;12th Day of  September: I am bit by fleas and plagued by family. That is all there is to  say.&quot; <br />and<br />&quot;16th Day of September: Spinning. Tangled. 17th  Day of September: Untangled.&quot; <br />until her mother bargains that Birdy  may forgo spinning as long as she is writing.<br />On the 21st Day of  September: &quot;Something is astir. I can feel my father's eyes following  me about the hall, regarding me as he would a new warhorse or a bull bought  for breeding. I am surprised that he has not asked to examine my hooves.  And he asks me questions.... This morning: 'Exactly how old are you,  daughter?' This forenoon: ' Have you all your teeth?' 'Is your breath sweet  or foul?' 'Are you a good eater?' 'What color is your hair when it is  clean?' Before supper: 'How are your sewing and your bowels and your  conversation?' What is brewing here?&quot;<br />Then she finds out: &quot;I  must take lady-lessons and keep my mouth shut.... my father, the toad,  conspires to sell me like a cheese to some lack-wit seeking a wife.&quot;   And so we live with Birdy &quot;this life of hemming and mending and  fishing for husbands,&quot; and hear about her friends the goat boy and  Lady Aelis, her brother who comes home from the Crusades, herbs and  doctoring, hangings, ale head, saints' days, cleaning out the privy,  soap-making... normal life in a manor.<br />CATHERINE, CALLED BIRDY may not  have grand adventures or non-stop action, but Birdy is sharp and witty and  the reader can certainly sympathize with her troubles. Some of the humor is  crude and scatological, but I think that is part of the realism Ms. Cushman  brings to her novel--while the author does note that Birdy is unusual in  not consenting to a marriage arranged by her parents, in every other way  the reader gets an accurate and lively picture of medieval life. Though  written primarily for a young adult (age 12 and up) audience, this  35-year-old girl enjoyed every page, and is now seeking the author's other  works. This book has won several awards, including the Newbery, and when  you read it, you will see why. A definite 5 out of 5.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R3Q0V9QK890R44	0446525383	881900442	Simple Abundance: A Daybook of Comfort of Joy	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Nurture yourself	The format is a page a day (big pages, sometimes a day's entry is longer than a page) but you don't have to read the day that it actually is, or read them in order. The main tenents of the book are finding everyday  happiness, being aware of what you have, how to know what you really need  and want, making time for yourself, nurturing your creativity, that kind of  thing. I've bought five copies for other people (mom, sis, girlfriends...)  -- that's how marvelous this book is.<br />I've underlined a lot in mine and  often go back to read bits that really hit me. It helps me feel better when  I'm down, and when I'm already in a good mood, bolsters that. The tone is  somewhat spiritual but not overpowering at all.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale,  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R2QSDAHL0X9ZHR	0446603236	697541991	Prim Rose (Flowers of the West)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Spirited Americana	Rose Martin's family farm has been sold to an English duke, and Rose is supposed to be on her way to Boston to go to Finishing School. Rose does not care about becoming a Proper Young Lady; she wants to stay and farm her  family's land. Of course, she is s ure the duke won't stay long once he  sees that Kansas is not England--no temperate climate, no exciting  diversions, no life of leisure: just a lot of hard work.<br />Alexander  Warrick, Duke of Moreland, wants to take an extended vacation in America,  and has purchased a country estate to that end--but he was expecting cool  trees, not barren heat. The young lady who still lives on the farm is  entirely improper, not kno wing the correct way to behave towards her  betters. Nevertheless, Alexander is determined not to go back to England  yet--he needs time away from the decisions that face him there.<br />It's  obvious to Rose that Alexander knows nothing of farming, so she stays on to  help him, hoping that he will soon be driven away and her beloved farm will  once again be hers--and Alexander has no argument since he can't even milk  the cow. As they share chores on the farm and the small sod house Rose grew  up in, they get on each other's nerves more and more--but also intrigue  each other. The third and final book of Millie Criswell's Flowers of the  West trilogy is as delightful as the first two. (And no, you don't have to  read the other two first.) Rose is a gem--wonderfully outspoken, determined  to think and act for herself. Secondary characters and setting add to the  charming tone of the story; plot twists keep the reader wondering. PRIM  ROSE is a spirited picture of Americana, full of sexual tension and  sensuality.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R2FL1QAPDE0UAH	0451180704	167339922	Silent Suitor (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Another winner from Ms. Fairchild	At 24, Sarah finally gets her first season in London. Although she has had a marriage agreement with a neighbor since childhood, she finds herself with many suitors. She comes to care particularly for Ashley  &quot;Hawkes&quot; Castleford, but it seems he only cares about her in a  friendly way, while his cousin Stewart courts her more ardently.<br />One of  the hallmarks of this book is that the blind heroine is *not* a tortured,  self-pitying soul who must be saved from herself. She is for the most part  happy, having been without sight since childhood. The descriptions of how  she senses people, and the scenes of friends and suitors helping her to  &quot;see&quot; and reading to her are marvelous.	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R2LRXQVV2J3K	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A humorous romp of errors	Alec, Lord Hunterston, must marry by midnight in order to satisfy his grandfather's will and keep his fortune safe from the hands of his wastrel cousin. Alec has a special license in his pocket and his bride in his  carriage--but at a stop to change horses, he realizes that the woman in the  carriage isn't his lovely young betrothed, Therese, but her drab spinster  cousin, Julia. However, with only two hours left to go, Alec has no  choice.<br />Julia Frant has been in love with &quot;Devil&quot; Hunterston  since she first met him four years ago. Her life as a poor relation has not  been an especially pleasant one, so she strikes a bargain with Alec.<br />The  other stipulation of Grandfather's will is that once Alec marries, he and  his wife live in London and move about in Society scandal-free for a year.  Alec knows it will be a long year without his usual drinking, gambling, and  keeping mistresses, but he can do it. The problem is Julia: she is a  reformer, actually going into the squalor of the Whitechapel area and  rescuing fallen women and other needy souls. Many of the nobility  contribute money to various charities, but to *work* with them, brush  shoulders with the lowest of the unwashed masses... it simply Isn't Done.  Alec must try to convince the headstrong Julia that, while she may still  give funds to her pet causes, she cannot be picking people in need off the  streets.<br />Upon hearing the title of this book, my first thought was that  is it a Gothic. It's not. Rather, it's a humorous romp of errors which  reminded me of the novels of Julia Quinn and Cathy Maxwell. Julia is a  delight, and the sexual tension between these two is steaming. Secondary  characters are well-drawn, including the pug-pampering harridan who takes  Julia under her wing and Alec's friends, one a dashing charmer and the  other a talkative, more-hair-than-wit fribble that one can't help but smile  at. I hope to hear their stories in future books. All in all, THE ABDUCTION  OF JULIA is a triumphant debut for Karen Hawkins, and no doubt I will not  be the only reader waiting for more from her.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under  the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R37WTN0XDFVTHZ	0515118575	880686662	A Ghost of a Chance (Haunting Hearts)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A light-hearted gothic	Daphne Harkwell is overcome with joy marrying at Iain Ashingford, Marquess Lindley, the man she has been in love with for years. But why would a he want to marry a no-name miss like her? Daphne tries to not think of that,  only of how happy she is. Then her husband does not appear for their  wedding breakfast. Apparently he has packed his bags and left; at this news  Daphne's mother collapses and dies.<br />Iain Ashingford is determined to  regain his family estate, Ash Park, which his father lost in a card game to  Daphne's grandfather--a game that Iain believes was fixed. He decides that  marrying Daphne is a price worth paying to fulfill the vow he made to his  dying father, but he doesn't want to have to live with her. He assumes  she'll be happy enough with a title, an allowance, and an estate of her  own; isn't that what she married him for?<br />As Iain settles in to Ash Park,  he receives a few unexpected guests: the Comtesse deCheval, determined to  be Iain's mistress; Daphne, determined to find out why Iain married her and  why he's acting like such a cad; and the ghost of Isadora Harkwell,  Daphne's mother, determined (and charged by heaven) to see that Iain and  Daphne fall in love, whether they want to or not. Casey Claybourne's  contribution to the new Haunting Hearts line is a fun romp. Daphne is a  young woman the reader can identify with; Iain isn't too much of a cad  since the reader knows things Daphne doesn't; and the ghost of Isadora is  hilariously charming while remaining credible. If there is such a thing as  a light-hearted gothic, GHOST OF A CHANCE is a great example of  it.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-05-17
US	53074530	R3AEOBZJLAT0MC	0451199758	22075182	The Ramshackle Suitor	Books	5	9	9	N	N	More than meets the eye	Miss Lucy Parnell, granted a week's holiday from her position as governess, is searching on the Isle of Man for her long-lost niece when she comes across a young man--a young man dressed in a Cavalier's finery, lying  in a ditch. He is, of course, quite foxed, being on the island to help his  friend celebrate his twenty-fifth birthday. Since he doesn't know how to  get back to his friend's home, he relies on his charm and lopsided grin to  get Miss Parnell to help him.<br />Roddy Kempthorne--Ramshackle Roddy to his  friends--is always getting into one scrape or another, and now he's  determined to join forces with Miss Parnell--who prefers to keep her life  neat and tidy--to help find her missing relative. She wants nothing to do  with the charming young fribble, but soon finds there's more to him than  meets the eye.<br />Ms. Butler does a masterful job of intertwining deep  emotion--both between Roddy and Lucy and with Lucy's search for her  family--into a light-hearted romp full of antics and adventure. The setting  and mood of the Isle of Man are as much a secondary characters and Roddy's  friends and Lucy's relatives. I couldn't help but fall in love with THE  RAMSHACKLE SUITOR, both the man and the book, and I think a lot of other  readers will feel the same.	2000-03-28
US	53074530	R1OKO9QCYSIVSE	0688174159	595907590	The Little Big Book of Love	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A gift for your sweetheart or for yourself	THE LITTLE BIG BOOK OF LOVE, which measures seven by seven inches but is an inch and a half thick, is a marvelous gift for your sweetheart (or yourself!) to be kept on a nightstand or coffee table--perfect for reading  aloud or for solitary indulgence. Including both familiar standards  not-so-commonly found works, this volume is filled with poems (Shakespeare  to cummings to Gillom), story &amp; play excerpts (JANE EYRE to THE  VELVETEEN RABBIT), songs (Cole Porter and the Gershwins), recipes (Honey  Figs, Seduction Salad, Sinful Chocolate Fondue), letters (Napoleon, the  Brownings, E.B. White), and 19th century illustrations (cupids, Victorian  lovers, hearts, flowers, and doves). To complete the package are a table of  contents and a woven-in red ribbon bookmark to find and mark one's  favorites (opening to a random page and reading is fun, too). This is a  quality book of quality literature to last as long as your love.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-02-05
US	53074530	R7115ESVHN898	0843945621	381452548	Pete (The Cowboys)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Love and caring, not just lust	Of course I'd heard the praises of Leigh Greenwood's novels, but since I'm usually not very big on Westerns, I hadn't tried any for myself, until PETE was put in front of me. Well! I'll be trying more of Mr. Greenwood's works  now!<br />Pete wakes up lying naked on the ground in Wyoming Territory. There  is a bullet wound grazing his head, and the last thing he remembers is two  men asking if they may join him at his campsite.<br />Anne married her  childhood sweetheart, Peter, by proxy three months ago--but since he hasn't  yet arrived from his home back East, other men are trying to take Anne's  ranch away from her.<br />I was pulled into the novel immediately, wondering  about Pete's situation and caring for both him and Anne right away. Mr.  Greenwood is a master of storytelling, so I'll let him do the rest of the  telling. Be assured that the plot is intriguing and finely crafted from  start to finish; the Western flavor is done to perfection; and both hero  and heroine learn and grow in the warmth of their friendship and mutual  respect. Even if you, like me, don't usually like Westerns, if you enjoy  romance with caring and not just lust, you'll enjoy PETE.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-02-05
US	53074530	R3NWNDQRAHBFI7	0966800516	67180990	Miss Darby's Duenna	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Traditional with a well done twist	Miss Olivia Darby has been friends with Sir Harry Hawthorne her whole life, and it's no surprise when he proposes marriage. However, Miss Darby's mama has decided that Miss Darby should have her London Season, whether she  is betrothed or not. When Harry's sister, Georgina, also receives a  marriage proposal, it is decided that the two young ladies will both be  brought out in London by Mrs. Darby.<br />Harry has always enjoyed the  pleasures of London, but he is taken aback when Miss Darby quickly gathers  many admirers. When an idea comes to him for the perfect way to keep a  watchful eye on his would-be fiancee, he impulsively implements it... not  realizing, of course, how complicated it could get and all the things that  could go wrong.<br />MISS DARBY'S DUENNA is a comedy of errors and manners  with a leisurely pace (especially at first) and a traditional feel and  tone--except of course for Harry's plan, which Ms. South pulls off very  well. It took me quite some time to get to know the characters and really  warm up to them, and the novel as a whole f alls short of the magnificence  of Ms. South's first regency, THE WEAVER TAKES A WIFE. Nevertheless this  second offering is an enjoyable read from a fresh new voice in the  subgenre, and I look forward to more from Sheri Cobb South and Prinny World  Press.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-11
US	53074530	R24KXC3923EPF9	0451198565	941617501	Fair Game (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	An intimate look at two people &amp; their relationship	When Trevor Whitlach calls in an old debt owed to him by the infamous courtesan La Gianetta, she offers as payment a beautiful young woman who she claims is her innocent daughter. Mr. Whitlach would normally have  nothing to do with such an arrangement, but he is so stuck by the girl's  incredible lovliness that he agrees, thinking to make her his mistress.  After all, no daughter of La Gianetta could actually be an  innocent!<br />Clarissa's married nobleman father had at least arranged for  her the best education money could buy, at Bathhurst Ladies' Academy. In  the very short time she has been in her mother's household, it has been so  horrid that she has no doubts that going willingly with Mr. Whitlach will  be her best chance to escape and find a post as a governess  somewhere.<br />Trevor is a plain-spoken man, but not without honor. Clarissa  is intelligent but an idealist. They are together most of the 214 pages of  this book, talking, debating, getting to know each other, and becoming  friends. The story is not overburdened with adventure, suspense, and wild  plot twists, but an is intimate look at two people and how their  relationship grows. FAIR GAME doesn't need any fancy frills to make it an  enjoyable read--Ms. Farr's solid, superb craftmanship stands on its  own.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R18M9OXRJLOIV6	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Intrigue, romance, and history in one readable tome	Ms. George did a lot of research to come up with Henry's side of things, and does a marvelous job. The format is a memoir written by Henry late in his life. Notes by Henry's jester (added after Henry's death) are  interspersed throughout and do nicely to balance Henry's viewpoint.  Although much of Henry's story is not happy, some of it is, and all of it  is fascinating.<br />The book is easy to read, written mid-way between a  modern and a 16th century style. The only problem I had with it was the  prologue, ten pages of Will Somers explaining the memoirs. Read it but  don't think the whole book is as slow.<br />It was insightful to see Henry  portrayed as a man, not a monster, and to be reminded of all the good he  did for England.<br />Intrigue, romance, and history all in one very readable  tome!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R1YTRF3RPVQL04	0451190785	112301081	The Would-be Witch (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A marvelous treat for the emotions and intellect	Miranda Wilton is caught between two worlds: the ton of London, and those of The Blood, which includes her family, the Wodesbys. The Wodesbys are direct descendants of Merlin and have always had strong magical powers, but  Miranda, now twenty-eight, has none. No mage of The Blood wishes to marry  her, and those of The Blood do not marry outsiders. She carries the burdens  of The Blood--the stares, the whispers behind gloved hands, the fear--but  none of the joys of magic.<br />Lord Adam Brand is the most notorious debunker  of charlatans in London. He has no faith in any kind of spiritual world and  is set on exposing as fraud all of those who would cheat others of their  money in the name of magical assistance. When he meets Miranda and her  mother, he is certain that they are just another couple of tricksters--but  he is surprised when Miranda seems to believe whole-heartedly in her  mother's powers while denying--with shame?--that she has any of her  own.<br />THE WOULD-BE WITCH is a novel of both emotion and intellect. Have a  hankie ready, and enjoy also the marvelous scenes in which hero and heroine  spend time together really talking, sharing ideas and opinions, not just on  dits and flirting. The reader gets to know and care for Miranda and Adam as  they do each other. Kudos to Rita Boucher for a story that caresses the  reader's heart!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R1HXM1659SBBOQ	0061087041	967923775	The Gentleman Caller	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Too gloomy for this reader	Rosalie Lafon has decided that after all these years of helping out in the church and parish, it's time for her to take the veil and become a nun. However, at the same time her dying father forbids it, her priest urges her  to think about it over the summer before making a commitment. Then her  father brings home a surprise guest, a man who is American, not Creole, who  is to be her fiance and the heir to the Lafon business and wealth. If Papa  wishes this man to be in the family, why can't he marry her sister Corinne,  who is young and beautiful and dreams of marriage?<br />Jack Waters, just out  of prison after three years, can't believe it when Gaston Lafon offers him  his fortune in exchange for marrying his daughter, Rosalie. He is even more  suprised when he meets Rosalie and finds that she is pleasant, the perfect  hostess, and not unattractive. Then he meets Corinne...<br />As always, Megan  Chance gives her readers something different, something unexpected in a  romance novel--but do be prepared. In the THE GENTLEMAN CALLER she paints a  gorgeous picture of Creole New Orleans--but also does she paint hardships  of the soul, a piece that is a little too gloomy, perhaps too real, for  this reviewer's tastes. The characters all seemed selfish and morose, all  focused only on their own goals--not that the situation is one any parties  could easily be happy with, but nevertheless, these were not people I could  like or feel sympathy for. For readers who want characters they can care  about as well as some rays of hope and joy amidst the darkness, this  reviewer very highly recommendeds Ms. Chance's THE PORTRAIT  instead.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R17G432N5V407J	0965250229	180558122	Escape to a Small Town!: Create a New Life & Fulfill Your Dreams in a Place Where You Can Breathe	Books	4	23	23	N	N	No-nonsense realism lovingly explained	Many Americans dream of fleeing urban blight to a small town, but what is life in small town really like? Will someone who's used to the city enjoy a small town? And how does one find just the right small town? <br />Lisa Rogak  answers these questions and more in ESCAPE TO A SMALL TOWN! She starts the  reader with setting goals, choosing what *kind* of small town is best for  you, how to find that town, and how to adjust to living there, including  issues of employment, your kids, fitting in, and staying happy. Rogak also  includes sections on what it's like to live in Maine, New Hampshire,  Vermont, and Upstate New York--her end of the country, where many former  urbanites head.<br />Rogak is careful, however, to not see small town life  through rose-colored glasses--she points out (and includes examples of)  different types of folks who think they might like small town living but  turn out not to. After all, there are many advantages to living in a big  city that just can't be found in small towns, like a wealth of shopping,  plenty of jobs, and gourmet restaurants galore. <br />It's obvious that Rogak  is writing from her head as well as her heart and truly wants to inform her  readers and have them be happy with whatever decision they make. The book  is written in a witty, folksy style that is easy to read and includes  first-person accounts from others who have taken the plunge. Highly  recommended for anyone who wonders what it's like to not lock your doors at  night, to smile and chat with people in your local market, and to hear  birds, crickets, and frogs rather than sirens, horns, and engines.  <br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R2WHAZN9SDSH4	0451195434	218217005	The Chester Charade	Books	2	2	3	N	N	The not-so-polite side of Regency Society	Miss Chastity Cummings and her brother Lord Cummings are holding their annual house party at Chester, their family's estate. Neither of them is looking forward to getting married anytime soon, but they nevertheless  uphold their late father's tradition. Chastity is somewhat surprised at  learning that a former suitor, Jeffrey Halston, will be attending. But it  was many years ago that they were an on-dit, and Jeffrey is widowed now,  and no doubt much changed.<br />Ms. Buck does very well at peopling the house  party and the novel--the other brother and his catty wife; the widow who is  after Lord Cummings; the widow's poor relation; the assorted friends and  acquaintances. Unfortunately, this is to the detriment of the primary  characters. We see much of Chastity, but Mr. Halston doesn't even show up  until a quarter of the way into the novel. THE CHESTER CHARADE is not so  much a romance as the story of one particular house party. In many  ways--the lengthy converstations and gossip, the slow pace, the everyday  details--this book reminds me of the works of Jane Austen. However, I do  not care for any of the characters (except for the poor relation). Their  sniping insults, rudeness, and dislike of each other made me set the volume  aside many times, finally for good after Chapter 7. For readers who wish to  see the not-so-polite side of Regency society, THE CHESTER CHARADE is a  good choice. Other readers, however, might wish to try Ms. Buck's  FREDERICKA'S FOLLY or TEMPTING SARAH instead, or one of Signet's other  regencies.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale	2000-01-08
US	53074530	RYNZYCAUFDU5W	0451162625	537769424	Pearl (Signet)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A thought-provoking slice of Maine life	Pearl Dickenson inherits the home and land of her great-uncle Joe, who she never had the chance to meet. On the spur of the moment, while taking care of Uncle Joe's funeral arrangements, Pearl decides to live in his house  rather than sell it. Even though Pearl is &quot;from away&quot; she fits in  with many of the inhabitants of the small Maine town. All of sudden, after  three years of having no gentlemen friends, there are two men on the  horizon. The two are very different from one another, but both have a lot  to offer Pearl--and both have their own troubled pasts.<br />PEARL is not a  fast-paced action-packed read. It is a novel of setting and character, a  slice-of-life story that lets the reader live in small town Maine for a  while. The characters are funny and real, and Pearl is so likable that one  has to keep reading and share her life. Tabitha King doesn't fool around  with sex issues, either: she faces them head-on, and most of the love  scenes are poetic while retaining their reality. The author has some  interesting things to say about sex, love, friendship, family, and caring,  but never says them in a preachy, intrusive way. PEARL is a smooth,  leisurely, thought-provoking read.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the Covers  Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R3R4JRWJSWQ0B6	0451195329	258788726	The Magnificent Marquess	Books	5	8	9	N	N	One of my all-time favorite regencies	When a novel starts out with the heroine wishing she could ask the hero more about his experiences in India, I know this is a character and story I will like. When the book is written by Gail Eastwood, it's practically a  shoo-in for an enjoyable, romantic read--usually with at least one twist on  the traditional regency.<br />When the handsome and wealthy Reinhart Maycott  suddenly becomes the Marquess of Milbourne, the mother of his old school  chum William Parbury invites him to dinner--in hopes of making a match for  her eldest daughter, Aurora. Reinhart isn't interested in Aurora,  however--he knows that the ton's new fascination with him stems largely  from his title and healthy finances. Besides, women have proven too painful  for him to deal with, and the ton would never accept his past if they knew  about it.<br />Mariah Parbury knows that she is not to attract Lord  Milbourne's attention in any way, but her active mind can't help wanting to  know more about his life in India, and her impetuous curiousity about his  exotic possessions leads her to form a plan to get inside his home--only to  view his travel momentoes, of course! How can she do it without the  marquess or the ton finding out?<br />In THE MAGNIFICENT MARQUESS, Gail  Eastwood has given us a story that is by turns madcap comedy and dark  emotions. Two intelligent characters--one with too much confidence, the  other with too much past and too much pain--get entangled in each other's  lives... but can that entanglement be happy or lasting? Ms. Eastwood's  many-layered novel makes for a most fulfilling read with food for thought  after the volume is placed on your keeper shelf.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R3C5U9NI82HNG6	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Characters, setting, story...no one does it like King	Mary and Peter Jackson are driving his sister's car from Oregon to New York. While going through Nevada on Highway 50, they are stopped by Officer Entragian from the nearby town of Desperation. The cop finds a large bag of  marijuana in the trunk and doesn't care that it was left there by Peter's  sister--Peter and Mary must come with him to the station. On the way, they  pass on RV on the side of the road which has all of its tires flat and the  doors banging open in the wind. Why doesn't the cop stop to help the  disabled vehicle? On the ride to town, Peter and Mary wonder about the  cop's mental stability; when the get to the station, it's no longer a  question--the cop has some serious problems--and so do Peter and Mary, as  well as some other people, it appears.<br />Johnny Marinville is a National  Book Award winner, crossing the country on his Harley, collecting material  and stopping for lectures. When he stops at the side of the road to take  care of a call of nature, a local policeman, Officer Entragian, is upon him  and insists on hauling him in to town. As they go, Johnny notices coyotes  at the side of the road--sitting at attention about every fifty feet on  both sides of the road. When they get into town, Johnny notices that it is  abnormally quiet, even for a small mining town.<br />What will happen to other  people who might pass Desperation while speeding down Highway 50? And  what's happened to Desperation itself?<br />This is one of King's most  gruesome--and most riveting--yet. The reader is horrified yet compelled to  continue reading--King's characters are so real we must keep reading in  order to find out what happens to them. These characters are us, going  about their normal lives, and the weirdness creeps up so slowly that we  know that what happens to them could happen to us. The tone and setting,  too, are perfect--it is dark and you are alone when you read DESPERATION,  so much so that if you go outside you are sure no one will be  there--anywhere.<br />As in many of King's books, the theme of Good vs. Evil  is a major one here, but with a twist. In DESPERATION, King has shown a  specific mechanism of Good, and in this case it's God. King explores  various religious themes, including the nature of God and free will vs.  predestination, but never gets preachy or sentimental.<br />Characters,  setting, story, ideas... King combines these in his magical way like no one  else can, and comes up with one of his best novels yet.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R3NPCD810I3DUO	188147402X	24026072	Book Blitz: Getting Your Book in the News : 60 Steps to a Best Seller	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A must for all authors who aren't yet on the NYT List	This is the best book I've found so far on book promotion. (And believe me, I've read just about every one I could get my hands on, in preparation for my book's time.)<br />The contents of this book are arranged  chronologically, starting with the first steps an author should takes to  promote her book before the book is published. Sixty steps presented in  fourteen chapters outline an understandable step-by-step plan of not ony  what to do but when to do it. Case studies illustrate how successful these  suggestions can be.<br />Gaughen and Weckbaugh first tell their readers why  publicity is what creates best-selling books, then go on to explain the  most effective kinds of flyers, who to send them to, how to put together a  press kit, how to get reviews, interviews, speaking engagements and  booksignings, how to target non-traditional markets, and how to have an  autographing party.<br />BOOK BLITZ isn't necessarily full of secrets you  won't find elsewhere, but it presents practical, hands-on ways to promote  your book in a fast, easy-reading style that covers just about everything  without getting too esoteric. A must-have for anyone who wants their books  to sell.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R39GQZOJ4OGE3F	0451188640	674982312	River of Fire	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An exquisitely emotional read	Kenneth Wilding, Viscount Kimball, a former reconnaisance officer for Wellington, is hired to infiltrate Sir Anthony Seaton's household and discover if Sir Anthony is responsible for the death of his wife the  previous summer. He hates to take a position of spying on people, but his  late father and his wife impovishered the family estate, so much so that  there is not even a dowry left for Kenneth's sister. Kenneth sees no other  way to save his family's estate, so he applies for the job of personal  secretary to Sir Anthony, who is a well-known artist. Kenneth was  interested in art when he was young, and showed some talent, but his father  felt that drawing and painting were not acceptable diversions for  gentlemen. Now, however, Kenneth's knowledge helps him get the job.<br />Sir  Anthony's daughter, Rebecca, is a spinster who was ruined by a foolish  elopement attempt years ago when she was only seventeen. Since then, she  has shunned Society as it has shunned her, and has preferred only to paint  in her attic studio. Society is also not ready to accept that a woman can  be a gifted artist, but Rebecca tells herself it doesn't matter; her art is  only for herself.<br />Kenneth is intrigued by Rebecca, whose ideas and  personality are different from those of any other woman he's ever met. He  feels worse and worse about the deceit he is using against her and her  father--but there must be justice, and if Sir Anthony killed his wife,  justice must be served. If only there could be any other ending than  Rebecca hating him once she finds out why he is really in her  home...<br />RIVER OF FIRE is intense and emotional, at time dark, but never  depressing. Putney has done wonders at revealing the soul, creative  insight, temperament, and world of visual artists. This is only the second  novel I've read (THE PORTRAIT by Megan Chance was the first) that so  inspired me that I, not a visual artist, was moved to try to put my  emotions on paper with color and form via avisual medium--and it was  exhilarating. That's how exquisite RIVER OF FIRE is.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R2GMM0AGHNDR8X	0451198352	619961628	The Misfit Marquess	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good solid gothic (just not a great one)	Elizabeth is running away. When she comes upon a burning building that appears to be a manor house, she feels compelled to help--but her horse is stolen and she is struck unconscious. When she comes to, it is in the home  of Lord Greyleigh, rumored to be mad like his mother was. Lord Greyleigh  believes that Elizabeth was an inmate of the asylum that burned, and she  realizes that letting him believe so will give her the perfect cover and  hiding place she needs until she can find a solution to her  problems.<br />Lord Greyleigh has no room in his heart for anything but  duty--to his brothers, his tenants, the villagers who live nearby. He takes  in the survivors of the asylum fire until such time as their families can  be found. The one who calls herself Elizabeth and does not remember (or  will not admit to) a surname seems different from the rest, however--not  that she isn't as mad, but that she seems to touch something inside him,  something that makes him desire her and perhaps, if he is not careful, come  to care about her. But he must find out who she is as quickly as possible  and get her out of his life.<br />I had high hopes for this novel, which might  have been better titled The Mad Marquess. It is a good solid gothic  romance, complete with a possible ghost, but Ms. DesJardien doesn't delve  into potential madness with the eloquence of Kristin Hannah or Mary Jo  Putney. Still, it is an enjoyable few hours of seeing two wounded people  help to heal each other, and definitely a good choice for readers who don't  want an overabundance of dark angst.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the  Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	RIDTE4787OP26	0764103121	495454603	Whippets (Complete Pet Owner's Manuals)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Personal insight, not just care &amp; training	Dr. Coile's WHIPPETS is more than just a How-to-raise-and-train-your-dog book, it is a personal introduction into the history and lives of these sensitive, athletic, and loving dogs. Of course there is the requisite  information on choosing and purchasing a dog, health, and training; but Dr.  Coile's 35 years of sighthound ownership also give a her special insight to  this breed, which she imparts to her readers with love and  skill.<br />Whippets can be very happy living in an apartment, provided they  get enough of the right kind of exercise--not the same kind of exercise a  retriever or scent hound would need. Dr. Coile explains the various field  and conformation competitions and activities that Whippets enjoy and excel  at, as well as the best methods to train your Whippet (always with love and  praise, not with punishment).<br />Appendices include the AKC Whippet Standard  and useful addresses and literature for more information on Whippets.  Plenty of gorgeous color photos and wonderful illustrations by Michelle  Earle-Bridges complete this package that is indispensible to Whippet  owners, those considering getting a Whippet, and dog lovers who just want  to learn more about this graceful breed. Although it is not a big book, it  is concise and all very breed-specific--this is not just general dog  information with one chapter about Whippets thrown in, as some breed books  by other publishers seem to be. Whether you buy many books about Whippets  or just one, this volume is the one to get first.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale   Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R2BPFE6SFVRUWI	0944875548	705023090	How Willy Got His Wheels	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A story of love &amp; courage for all ages	Willy the Chihuahua lives at an animal hospital, because his back legs don't work. He dreams of having a home and a family and playing with other animals and chasing sticks. Then one day, a pretty lady comes and takes him  home with her! Willy meets his new brother, another Chihuahua named Sweet  Pea, and his new sister, a fluffy silver cat named Marshmallow.<br />Willy  still can't walk or run, and has to use his front legs to drag himself from  place to place, until his new mother tries some different ideas to help him  get around--with often humorous results.<br />Filled with bright, gorgeous  watercolor illustrations that even pre-readers can appreciate, HOW WILLY  GOT HIS WHEELS is the story of a loveable and courageous little dog.  Written for age levels 5-10, it's a book that everyone from toddlers to  adults can enjoy on many levels. Authors Turner and Mohler have done a  tremendous job of showing life from a physically disabled viewpoint without  preaching or patronizing. Here's hoping we will get to hear more of Willy's  adventures in the near future!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book  Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R3ET8ONEJYGU92	0451197909	882501943	A Bird in Hand (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Uncommonly good book made up of common elements	Lord Symington's grandfather, the Duke of Whitfield, has a dying wish: to see his grandson marry and beget an heir. Symington hates London, but Whitfield suggests a lady who might suit: Lady Elizabeth, the granddaughter  of his old friend Lord Fosdale. As it happens, the present Lord Fosdale,  Elizabeth's father, has a rare manuscript that Whitfield might wish to  purchase. Symington, an expert in antique books, could go to Fosdale Manor  to inspect the manuscript and meet the daughter without feeling obligated  to make an offer for her. Symington reluctantly agrees, taking along his  friend, Lord Sedgewick Wylie.<br />Elizabeth hears of her father's plans to  trap Symington into marriage with her. Elizabeth does not wish to marry at  all. Besides, her younger sister Cecelia is much more beautiful; if anyone  is going to be trapped in marriage--an idea Elizabeth loathes--it might as  well be Cecelia. Elizabeth flees to her aunt's home for what she hopes is a  long enough time to not meet Lord Symington. But when she returns home, she  meets some unusual visitors...<br />The author uses many elements not at all  uncommon to historical romance: the hero who isn't sure if anyone sees the  man behind the title and wealth; the heroine who fears marriage and the  total control it gives a man over his wife; the scheming parents who try to  set up their daughters to be compromised; mistaken identities; storms; a  carriage accident... What makes A BIRD IN HAND different and so enjoyable  is the way Ms. Lane synthesizes these elements into a whole that is greater  than its parts. We see the hopes, dreams, plans, thoughts, and fears of  most the characters, not just hero and heroine. The primary two spend a  great deal of time together, often in serious conversation, and as they get  to know each other as people, not just titles, the reader gets to know them  as well--Ms. Lane packs a lot into 218 pages. A BIRD IN HAND is not light  and frothy, but neither is it dark and depressing--it is just right.  Whether you are new to the Regency subgenre or a long-time fan, don't miss  this one.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R2KQNZE9BEIUGN	0451195736	240921681	The Best Intentions	Books	5	55	56	N	N	Candice Hern's best yet!	Rejoice--Candice Hern is back with her best one yet!<br />Miles Prescott, Earl of Strickland, always welcomes his sister Winifred for visits home to Epping Hall, but this time, in addition to her husband and sons, she is  also bringing along two distant cousins: one young lady just about to make  her debut, and her chaperone, a widow. Miles knows that whatever  matchmaking plans Winifred has won't be easy to thwart. He asks his friend  and neighbor, Joseph Wetherby, to also join them to make the numbers even.  Miles, a widower, knows that he should remarry to provide his daughters  with a mother and also to try to beget an heir, but a chit just out of the  schoolroom isn't what he had in mind--perhaps the widowed  chaperone...?<br />Hannah Fairbanks does not want a Season in London, nor to  become a lady. Though she is nearly twenty, she is interested only in her  studies of ancient architecture. The only reason she agrees to go to Epping  Hall is to visit the nearby St. Biddulph's, a church built in Saxon times.  She will never be a charming beauty like her older sister Charlotte and she  doesn't wish to marry, so why must she learn all those rules of proper  behavior--why can't she just be herself?<br />Hannah steals the show with her  innocent, delightful enthusiasm for historic buildings, keeping children  amused, and making people smile. It is a joy to join her on this leg of her  journey of self-discovery. The romances (yes, more than one) build slowly,  but build they do in sometimes surprising ways. Ms. Hern has a special  knack for creating a marvelous blend of incredibly true-to-life,  sympathetic characters; touching scenes and emotion; and subtle humor. THE  BEST INTENTIONS will send Candice Hern to the top of the Regency  charts.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R539K5XSVJIVY	0451194799	966984995	The Defiant Governess (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	54	57	N	N	A heroine after my own heart	I picked this up after utterly enjoying Ms. Pickens' second Signet Regency, CODE OF HONOR. I'm rather surprised that I hadn't bought this when it first came out--THE DEFIANT GOVERNESS sounds just like my kind of  heroine! I must have been extra poor in January 1998.<br />At any rate, I sat  down to read last night for just a bit before going to bed. Hah! Four hours  later I closed the book with a happy sigh.<br />Lady Jane Stanhope's father,  the Duke of Avanlea, loves his daughter, but feels that she cannot make a  wise choice of husband at only twenty years of age--so he will make one for  her. After all, it is much his fault that after her mother died, Jane grew  up reading any books she chose, racing on horseback with her brother, and  speaking her mind.<br />Naturally, Jane doesn't wish to marry a man she has no  regard for; she wants to marry for love, as her parents were lucky enough  to do. She hears of a situation in which a governess is needed for a  seven-year-old boy whose guardian is never in residence. The household is a  pleasant one, young Peter is very much in need of a loving hand, and Jane  won't have the common problem governesses face of having the master of the  estate chasing after her.<br />When the Marquess of Saybrook returns home  unexpectedly, the whole household is in a turmoil, except for &quot;Miss  Jane,&quot; who constantly must remember to keep the demeanor of one in  service. Saybrook seems cold and haughty to her (and acts so to his young  nephew as well), but Jane soon suspects that he has some warmth underneath  and that there is more to him than meets the eye. Saybrook is both shocked  and amused at this new governess who struggles to keep her place, but since  she has already done so much for Peter, he can hardly turn her  out.<br />Although the plot may seem unlikely, Ms. Pickens makes it easy to  happily suspend disbelief. We see the events that have lead Jane to even  ponder such a course as she takes, and we eventually learn why Saybrook  acts so high in the instep. For readers who don't care for children in  their romances, don't let Peter turn you off this book--he is a joy to  watch grow and learn to trust--as are Jane and Saybrook.<br />THE DEFIANT  GOVERNESS has a reletively small number of characters who come onstage,  giving the hero and heroine time to get to know each other... conversing,  teaching Peter to play chess and the pianoforte, exploring the estate, and  plenty of verbal sparring that never degrades into bickering or  fighting.<br />The very beginning of the book reads like the first novel that  it is, but very quickly do we come to care for the characters and get swept  up in the story. After this showing, you can be sure that I will be  purchasing--and reading--Ms. Pickens' third novel the day it hits the  bookstore shelves. Andrea Pickens is a delightful new author to watch out  for.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R2LVM5LRO4DF1D	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Even better than I'd hoped	In this &quot;parallel novel to ENDER'S GAME,&quot; Bean starts as an intelligent but starving (and I do mean starving) four-year-old on the mean streets of Rotterdam. By chance he is noticed, then tested for both  intelligence and leadership potential by the International Fleet. The IF  runs Battle School, a facility where children are taught the skills  necessary to win the inevitable War with the Buggers, an alien race who  nearly wiped out all human life.<br />I'm not big on either military or  intrigue plots, but ENDER'S SHADOW has very little of these. It is a  fascinating study of a fascinating character, the events and ideas that  shape his life and his mind, and how he copes with it all, from the gang  bosses of Rotterdam to the other kids (all older than he) in Battle School  to finally meeting the almost legendary Ender Wiggin to the stress and  trauma of impending war. While ENDER'S SHADOW takes place in the same time  frame and covers some of the same events (from Bean's very different point  of view rather than Ender's) as ENDER'S GAME, this novel stands alone very  well, so that it doesn't matter which of the two you read first. I first  read ENDER'S GAME several years ago and greatly enjoyed rereading it (for  the fourth or fifth time) immediately after finishing ENDER'S  SHADOW.<br />Orson Scott Card's latest has all the pathos and insight we've  come to expect from him, along with characters one can't help but like and  even admire. A truly spectacular book that will stay with the reader long  after the last page, ENDER'S SHADOW is my pick for both the Hugo and the  Nebula Awards this year.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the Covers Book  Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R1MW3U4IIIDPEG	0312143990	532933688	Raising Rover: Breed-By-Breed Training from Afghans to Yorkies	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Yes! Pugs are neither Border Collies nor Borzois	RAISING ROVER is definitely different from any other training book I've ever encountered, in that it concentrates on training tips and methods by breed of dog. In addition, I think it would be a marvelous book for  would-be dog owners to peruse to help them decide which breed is right for  them.<br />The book starts with a 95 page general training section, the usual  housetraining, obedience, dog pack &quot;pecking order,&quot; and problem  solving. I always find it useful to read these sectiosn because each  author/trainer (Halliburton is an animal behaviorist and trainer) has  different methods and new viewpoints and tidbits to add. Halliburton  includes a chapter called, &quot;It's Okay, It's Okay&quot; about the  pitfalls of trying to comfort one's dog in times of stress such as visits  to the vet, loud thunderstorms, strange people, and the like.<br />Then comes  175 pages of breed profiles--profiles of 87 of the most popular breeds  (sorry, no Clumber Spaniel, Ibizan Hound, or Dogue de Bordeaux). The basis  of these profiles is, of course, that well-bred purebred dogs (i.e. not  bred willy-nilly at puppy mills--DO NOT buy from them or from pet stores!)  have certain predictable behaviors for each breed, and particular ways of  reacting, learning, and getting along with others.<br />Each profile  includes:<br />What the dog was originally bred for: Basenjis were bred in  Africa to act as guides to hunters and warn their human if there was a lion  or some other dangerous animal in the vacinity.<br />Housetraining tips: you  can't tell if a Bloodhoud pup needs to go out just because he's sniffing  the floor, becauses he's *always* sniffing the floor and everything else;  if your Bulldog pup starts sniffing the floor, whisk him outside  immediately; Poodles are one of the easiest to housetrain.<br />Personality:  Dachshunds can be problem barkers because they all think they're Mastiffs;  Cocker Spaniels get along great with children and will happily follow them  anywhere; Pekingese &quot;have more guts than brains...wouldn't hesitate to  protect you from a lion&quot; (a Peke is a toy breed weighing no more than  15 pounds); &quot;Vizslas are an odd mix of hardy hunter and nervous  wreck.&quot; <br />Training: Boxers, Chesapeake Bay Retrievers, Rottweilers  and Samoyeds are some of the breeds that need strong leadership from their  human; &quot;Borzois can be very bullheaded if you're asking them to do  something they don't want to do or see no point in doing. On the other  hand...these dogs are polite and well-mannered automatically;&quot;  regarding Border Collies, &quot;There is very little you can't train this  dog to do. And what you don't train Rover to do, he'll probably figure out  for himself.&quot; (Then follows a great anecdote about a BC who learned  out to get ice from the dispenser in the door of the  refrigerator).<br />Environment needed, including active (Irish Setters) or  sedate (Great Pyrenees), how they get along with children of various age  groups (Chihuahuas are great with teenagers but not good with small  children) and the elderly (Minature Pinscher), whether they can be latchkey  dogs, whether they get along with other dogs in the household, if they can  live happily in an apartment (yes, Great Danes can do it), how much  exercise is required/tolerated.<br />Halliburton is also clear on the  disadvantages of each breed: which tend to bark (Alaskan Eskimos,  Pomeranians) dig (Alaskan Malamutes), drool (St. Bernards), and snore  (Boston Terriers, Bulldogs, Pugs--of course when *my* Pug snores, it's a  comforting lullaby to me, not a disadvantage at all!)<br />What if you have a  mixed breed dog? Well, if you know that it's a Chow/Siberian Husky cross,  you just read the profiles of those two breeds and observe your dog to see  how they combine in him. If you get a dog from a shelter (a very  commendable act!) and it seems to have some Doberman, German Shephard, and  Golden Retriever, read about thosebreeds.<br />In the You Learn Something New  Every Day department, here's something I've *never* heard of before:  because Great Danes originated as a breed around 300-400 BC, the different  colors (fawn, brindle, black, etc) have different temperaments. I wonder  what the Great Dane people have to say about that.<br />Halliburton doesn't  talk about a dog's size, grooming requirements, and that sort of thing  because she's assuming you already have your dog, so for this reason this  book isn't a great stand-alone guide to choosing a breed, but it's got a  lot of insightful information on the subject, and can be exceptionally  helpful in training.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	RSOWSLISRYTJL	0898797268	162471152	Romance Writer's Sourcebook: Where to Sell Your Manuscripts	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A must for pre-published romance authors	This is a truly marvelous book, packed with info for us yet-to-be-published romance authors. There's so much here that published folks might find the book useful, too.<br />Contents in brief:<br />&quot;New  Ground: the Evolution of Romance&quot; and &quot;The Groundbreakers&quot;  by Nora Roberts  &quot;Mind, Body, Heart and Soul: Creating Fully Developed  Characters in Romance Fiction&quot; by Suzanne Simmons  &quot;The  Well-Chosen Words&quot; by Evan Maxwell  &quot;Sense and Sensuality: Sexual  Tension and Love Scenes in Romantic Fiction&quot; by Stella Cameron   &quot;Happily Ever Laughter: Writing Romantic Comedy for Women&quot; by  Jennifer Crusie Smith  &quot;Magic, Myth and Metaphysics: Exploding the  Boundaries of Romance&quot; by Kristen Hannah  Advice from the Heart:  Romance Authors Share Their Secrets <br />(the above sections take up 80  pages)<br />Marketing Your Romance (including query and cover letter samples)   Market Listings: separate listings for each series imprint, most 3 or 4  pages long; more info than one gets from just the plain guidelines.  <br />(this section is nearly 100 pages)<br />Agents: 3 articles, plus 30 pages  of romance agent listings, which include specialties for each agent, etc.   Success Stories:  &quot;Anatomy of a Sale&quot; for _The Warlord_ and _Mad  About You_ (40 pages total)  &quot;First Sales&quot; (8 titles discussed)  (15 pages)  Resources:  Online Services  Memoirs of a WebMistress by Callie  Goble  Organizations, Conferences and Workshops, including RWA chapters   Contests  Nonfiction Magazines and Publications of Interest  About the  Contributors; Glossary; various indices--the usual backmatter <br />The  chapters on craft are superb. While reading Stella Cameron's chapter on  sensuality, I realized why I'd been having such a problem with the erotic  short story I'd been working on: I wasn't really into it, and I was trying  to write the main sex scene checklist style--exactly what Stella warns  against. Stella's suggested exercise helped that story get written  properly.<br />Jennifer Crusie's &quot;Writing Romantic Comedy for Women&quot;  gave me a lot of food for thought and some new ideas, as well. I'd never  thought before about men and women having different ideas of what's funny,  other than general comments about &quot;The Three Stooges&quot; being a guy  thing. I'd love to be able to write humor, but I think it's one of the  hardest types of writing there is--this chapter helps.<br />Another part of  the Sourcebook I really enjoyed is the Success Stories, where eight authors  talk about what led up to their first sales. These are incredibly inspiring  to me. After I had the chance to seek out and read some of these first  novels, I read the stories of their sales again. It's wonderful to know the  behind-the-scenes details and to get reassurance that books aren't just  churned out by machines in secret basements in Manhattan.<br />ROMANCE WRITERS  SOURCEBOOK is a must for anyone considering writing a romance  novel.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale  Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-08
US	53074530	R2QD1UKFULVCPG	0515122424	874146131	Restless Spirit	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fun combo of Western Americana and Victorian England	Miss Penelope Potter and her beloved brother Harry are en route from Montana to London to visit with Harry's best friend, Arthur Collingsworth. Penny fell in love with Arthur four years ago when he visited the Potter  ranch. Now that she is eighteen, she hopes to impress Art with her ladylike  decorum--even though the reason she and Harry are traveling England is to  attend Art's nupitals.<br />After Penny and Harry arrive, Harry starts acting  strange--agressive and violent. Penny and Art must join forces to figure  out what's wrong with Harry--while, of course, fighting their attraction  for each other. After all, Art will soon be marrying the lady his family  chose for him, and Penny knows that marriage cannot fit in with her plans  to see the world and write travel articles.<br />RESTLESS SPIRITS is a fun  combination of Western Americana and Victorian England. Poor Penny tries  with all her might to act like a lady, but her American honesty and  outspokeness always come through--making her one of the most delightful  heroines I've met in a long time! The paranormal elements are not at all  overpowering, and there is plenty of focus on the romance even with the  problem of how to return Harry back to normal, with just the right touch of  Ms. Wilson's wacky signature humor. There's even an epilogue (a feature I  wish more romances would have!) so we get a glimpse of what happens to the  characters after they've ridden off into the sunset. I hope someday we'll  get Harry's story, too. If you've never read Rachel Wilson (who also writes  as Emma Craig and Alice Duncan) or a Jove Haunting Hearts, now's a great  time to start!	2000-01-07
US	53074530	R3CFJ3YJRBKF6K	0930044770	11797174	Pembroke Park	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Almost a traditional Regency--with a twist	Lady Joanna Sinclair is a nice proper English country widow. When she first meets her new neighbor, Lady Diana March, Lady Sinclair is aghast that Lady March is riding astride *and* wearing trousers! Lady Sinclair and  the rest of the Hereforshire neighbors are shocked and appalled... but  eventually Lady Sinclair gets to know Lady March better and they become  friends...<br />Not only did I enjoy reading this story, I was very impressed  by its believeability and depth of feeling. It was gracefully done,  subtle--it very much had the feel of a traditional regency. I've have  enjoyed Ms. Martin's other regencies, and PEMBROKE PARK is much like them  in that the can be outrageous and funny but also very human. This novel  paints a slightly different--but not as different as one might think--of  love, including the consequences that may occur if one is discovered.<br />I  haven't previously read &quot;lesbian fiction&quot; and if this is what  it's all like, then it doesn't seem much different than &quot;regular&quot;  fiction, except that both protagonists are female. There are still the  manners, the banter, and getting on in Society that we love in any Regency.  I think I shall try some other genre fiction from Naiad press... very  impressive.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-07
US	53074530	R3GLEMC98B4NB7	1889540056	753894277	RATS! (Fun & Care)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Captures the essence and spirit of pet rats	At last! A book that captures the essence and spirit and big personalities of pet rats, and gives more than just housing and feeding instructions.<br />This large-format (8 1/2 x 11 inches) book is full of all  the information a rat owner (or prospective rat owner) could ask for. Ms.  Ducommun covers the history and natural history of rats, how to tell if  rats are good pets for you (including financial and time requirements),  finding and choosing the right individuals, husbandry (more than half a  dozen types of homes for rats are shown), communicating with your rat,  first aid and health care, showing, breeding, and &quot;Fun Activities to  Do with Your Rats&quot; (games to play, tricks to teach, and how to teach  them).<br />Nearly every page sports a color photo: the many varieties and  colors of rats (rex, dumbo, hairless, agouti, siamese...), rats playing  with each other, rats enjoying the company of their humans, different kinds  of rat habitats and accessories. There are handy reference charts and  sidebars, such as A Rat's Basic Needs, Preventing Heatstroke, and  Domesticated Rat Facts at a Glance (rats' heart rates are 260-600 beats per  minute! Most humans' are 70-90). Appendices detail Healthy Homemade Rat  Diet and rat clubs and publications. Wrapping it all up are a glossary and  complete index.<br />Ms. Ducommun brings rats out of their cages and into  human hearts, from small mammals running on wheels all night to true  companion animals that can share our lives. If you are considering a small  pet and would like an intelligent, playful, affectionate companion, try  RATS!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-07
US	53074530	R146YQ3SO3ANQI	0966800508	639898632	The Weaver Takes a Wife	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A magnificent debut	Mr. Ethan Brundy, a weaver from Lancashire, feels that &quot;all it takes is 'ard work, perseverence, and a little bit o' luck&quot; to get whatever he wants. Upon attending a play at London's Covent Garden with his friends  Lord David Markham and Sir Aubrey Tabor, he catches a glimpse of Lady Helen  Radney, daughter of the Duke of Reddington, and decides this is the woman  he wants to be his wife. Lord Markham is acquainted with the family and  reluctantly introduces Mr. Brundy. Lady Helen and her suitors, Lord Waverly  chief among them, are appalled that Lord Markham would bring a man of Trade  to mix with the Ton. <br />Lady Helen, known as the Ice Princess, remains  unwed because no man comes up to her standards, though she knows she must  marry eventually.<br />To tell more of the plot would be to rob the reader of  the full joy of the whirlwind ride Ms. South takes us on. Mr. Brundy is  definitely the star of the novel--he combines practical intelligence,  determination, a kind heart and an optimistic outlook that he will allow no  one to dampen. Even his accent and mannerisms are delightful:<br />&quot;  'Lady 'elen.'<br />'My name is _Helen_, Mr. Brundy,' she said coldly.<br />'Very  well--'elen,' said Mr. Brundy, surprised and gratified at being given  permission, and on such short acquaintance, to dispense with the use of her  courtesy title. &quot; <br />I feared that Helen would have no redeeming  qualities, but we see a great deal of realistic growth in her from  beginning to end--none of that jump from &quot;I hate you&quot; to &quot;I  love you.&quot; The secondary characters add to the tale, and before I knew  it, I had turned the last page. THE WEAVER TAKES A WIFE is both thoughtful  and fun-filled. Even at more than twice the price of other publisher's  regencies, both long-time regency fans looking for a fresh voice and those  who usually don't read regencies because they are too stuffy will be  delighted. A magnificent debut for both Sheri Cobb South and Prinny World  Press. I look forward to more from both!<br />Kimberly Borrowdale Under the  Covers Book Reviews	2000-01-07
US	53074530	R3JAY4FDHL4FC1	0505522217	393123524	Stray Hearts (It's a Dog's Life)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A real find for dog lovers and romance lovers	When veterinarian Melissa March gets an after-hours call about a dog who has been accidentally struck by a car, of course she goes to the dog's rescue. Pets are her friends and her life; she has a little more trouble  dealing with Peter Winthrop, the handsome, friendly man she meets. But when  Melissa meets Peter's daughter Angie, who is terrified of dogs because she  believes a dog killed her mother, Melissa knows that she somehow has to try  to help Angie--and perhaps she will help Peter and herself along the  way.<br />Annie Kimberlin's debut novel is a masterpiece of storytelling, real  people, and all kinds of love--love for animals, love for friends, love for  family, love for a life partner. Ms. Kimberlin injects exactly the right  amount of detail to make her story come alive in a world just like the one  the reader lives in. STRAY HEARTS is not only one of the best contemporary  romances I've read, it's just a plain ol' Great Read--for romance lovers,  pet lovers, and story lovers.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book	1998-11-26
US	53074530	R2K8FYYCBQ5V8L	0451194934	625883873	Reforming Harriet (Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Passions rise and flour and dough fly	A woman who loves to bake, cook, and experiment with new dishes--and does so with great skill and delicious results. A man whose heightened sense of smell has served him well in spice import ventures and made him lover of  well-seasoned food. A match made in culinary heaven?<br />Not when the woman  is Lady Harriet Worthington, widow of Lord Frederick Worthington (a  womanizer to the end), daughter of the Duke of Sidenham (distant and cold);  now her own woman and loving it.<br />Not when the man is Lord Elias Westwood,  Worthington's partner in a very successful spice import business--a man who  wants possession of Lady Worthington's shares in the business, since she  has so mismanaged them since Freddy died.<br />Passions rise and flour and  dough fly from the first time these two meet. Most definitely a  character-driven novel, REFORMING HARRIET allows us to eavesdrop (along  with the servants!) on Harriet and Elias as they try to come to a mutually  satisfying disposition of the portion of the spice business left in  Harriet's care. Eileen Putman breathes life into an intriguing hero and  heroine, then sets them free to learn and grow... and love.<br />Kimberly  Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	1998-11-26
US	53074530	R3PYL8ZE9LR9SB	0451195418	443862677	My Lady Ghost (Regency Romance)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Regency with just a twist of something different	Lady Elena vows to fulfill her father's dying wish of keeping the treasure of Silverthorne Castle for his grandchildren, not letting it fall into the hands of his traitorous brother.<br />Generations later, the fabled treasure  has never been found. Most do not believe it exists, but there are some who  say that Lady Elena, The Silver Lady, haunts Silverthorne--but is she there  to drive away thieves or to lead the rightful heir to the trove?<br />Thorne  doesn't believe either treasure or ghost exist--he is sure that the  childhood sightings of the Lady by his distant cousin Allison were only the  products of a young imagination. Besides, he doesn't need the wealth--and  indeed, tales of it have only brought him grief, as his father and brother  died trying to find it. He ardently desires and cares for Allison, his  childhood friend, but he knows he cannot marry her (even if he wanted to  marry!) because he must produce an heir--and she did not have any children  even though she was married for six years before being widowed.<br />As  Allison has grown up, her affection for her friend and playmate Thorne has  grown into love. But he says he doesn't want a wife who openly and frankly  airs her educated opinions on everything from politics to literature--even  though he seems to fully enjoy their discussions. Allison is not willing to  become his mistress, so she and her impoverished mother must find another  place and means to live.<br />MY LADY GHOST is a lovely regency story of two  people who grew up as friends and fell in love--but who have reasons to  believe that a marriage between the two of them would never work. The parts  of the story concerning the Silver Lady and the treasure of Silverthorne  are very well done, providing adventure, mystery, and a slice of the  paranormal (and some marvelous love scenes) without taking away from the  romance. All in all, MY LADY GHOST is an enjoyable way to spend an evening,  especially for readers who want just a twistof something different in  their regency.<br />Some readers may wonder if this book is related to Ms.  Calvin's November 1996 regency MY LORD GHOST (also a fun read): some of the  characters in MY LORD GHOST are *very* briefly mentioned in MY LADY GHOST,  but the stories aren't related, and it is certainly not necessary to read  one before the other.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers Book Reviews	1998-11-26
US	53074530	R6M92QNHU34VT	0553571869	614889898	Animal Appetite (Bantam Crime Line Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An addictive series!	Holly Winter, a writer for DOG'S LIFE magazine, makes a bet with her friend and neighbor Rita (a psychotherapist) that she can indeed write something that has nothing to do with dogs whatsoever. Thus, Holly begins  research on Hannah Duston, who, in 1697 was captured by Indians--then  killed her captors and returned home. At the same time she is learning  about Hannah Duston, however, Holly is also finding out about John Winter  Andrews, who died eighteen years ago (was it suicide or murder? the case  was never solved)--and owned a Golden Retriever, the same breed of dog  Holly's family has bred for decades. Surely there must be a kinship link of  some sort, and Holly is determined to find out what really  happened.<br />Holly is a fun person to hang out with--smart, smart-mouthed,  and with a smart choice of companions: her two Alaskan Malamutes, Kimi and  Rowdy. Think Kinsey Millhone transplanted from Santa Teresa, California to  Cambridge, Massachusetts and immersed in the world of dogs. Holly's other  friends--her lover (and vet) Steve, her next door neighbor (and homicide  detective) Kevin, and Rita--are almost as engaging as the assorted canines  who show up in the novel. <br />Be warned: the Holly Winter series is  addictive! This reviewer read ten of them (of which this is number ten) in  ten days. All are stronger on dogs than on the mystery elements--which is  not to say the mystery elements are weak, they aren't--but that's just fine  by me. It isn't necessary to read these novels in order, so grab the first  one you can find (and all the others you can put your hands on) and dig in  for a tour of New England, dog shows and obedience trials, colonial  history... and, oh yes... rats.<br />Kimberly Borrowdale, Under the Covers	1998-11-26
US	53074530	R21T3BXR23OIGS	044022361X	707712301	Wild Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful and heart-warming!	Addie Blewitt dreams of a knight in shining armor to come and rescue her--and then one comes riding right onto her New Mexico Territory farm! Mr. Charley Wilde turns out to be a real Georgia gentleman, and Addie takes him right into her home to tend to his gunshot wound that she figures must have come from some of those miserable varmit men who roam the desert. <br /> Charley Wilde does his best to keep his brass band--the only one to have made it through the entire civil war together--intact. But playing music doesn't make money, and jobs are hard to come by. His men aren't very good at stealing either, and Charley takes a bullet while trying to rob a mercantile. Now this dreamy-eyed young lady wants to make a hero of him!  <br />  WILD DREAM is a delightful, heart-warming read. Addie is charming and funny in her own trying-to-be-a-real-lady-while-farming way; resolute in her habit of dreaming and the thinking the best of all situations and people. Charley is the perfect reluctant hero, and the balance that helps Addie see just enough of reality to enjoy life even more. It's a journey as glorious as the New Mexico sunset to see these two bring out the best in each other. Addie's Aunt Ivy, the men in in Charley's band, and the townspeople of Rothwell round out the story to make it a delicious slice of frontier life. Added bonuses are a great cover and author's historical notes. I can hardly wait to read more of Alice Duncan's Americana this summer!  <br />  Kimberly Borrowdale<BR>  Under the Covers Book Reviews<BR>  [...]<br />	1997-07-02
