US	53070673	R1AMJQXGV01R7Z	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	3	5	N	N	An engaging history	This book was a joy to read, though it took me some time to get through. Not because it was a slow read, but because interesting and good solid historical works are not fast reads. Ellis's is a master story teller, with a deep sense of language and keen turn of phrasing. He offers amazing insights into early revolutionary history through six vignettes between the founding brothers of the revolutionary generation.<br /><br />1) The Hamilton Burr duel as a window on the political disagreements of the period.<br /><br />2) Dinner between Jefferson, Madison and Hamilton as a means of compromise on Hamilton's federal fiscal programs and the location of the Nation's capital in Virginia<br /><br />3) The Silence from the House and the Senate on the slavery question when raised in 1790 by Quaker Abolitionists and the portent of that void.<br /><br />4) The Farewell of George Washington's retirement from the presidency and his advice to future generations.<br /><br />5) The Collaboration between opposing parties : Jefferson and Madison as Republican's while Jefferson was vice president to John Adams as president, whose confidant was his wife Abigail Adams<br /><br />6) The Friendship between Jefferson and Adams during the last 14 years of their life as they reflected on their revolutionary historical legacy.<br /><br />Some of my favorite insights. That streamlined histories are always retrospective applications of order on what was at the time an evolving unclear series of events. The failure of the revolutionary father's to deal with the slavery question, enabled the union to form, but that despite this dodging a price was to be paid, the Civil War. Ellis's description of Washington surrendering his military commission to congress : \\"in doing so he became the supreme example of the leader who could be trusted with power because he was so ready to give it up\\". And Washington's military strategy was the recognition that victory did not mean winning battles. Captured ground, what Washington termed a \\"war of posts\\", was virtually meaningless. The strategic key was the Continental Army. If it remained intact as an effective fighting force, the American Revolution remained alive, and the British could not win the war, which in turn meant that they would eventually loose it.<br />[...]what Washington termed a \\"war of posts\\", was virtually meaningless. The strategic key was the Continental Army. If it remained intact as an effective fighting force, the American Revolution remained alive, and the British could not win the war, which in turn meant that they would eventually loose it.<br />[...]	2005-03-22
US	53070673	R1U44HBGTFR3WB	0743270061	524670658	Survive!: My Fight for Life in the High Sierras	Books	5	5	13	N	N	The will to Survive	[...]    This is an amazing tale of survival, the strength of the human spirit, and the indomitable will to live. Peter DeLeo crashed his plane, along with two other companions in the Sierra's in the middle of the winter. Leaving his friends behind Peter sets out to make his way to civilization. Hiking for 12 days, through deep snow, several storms, crossing many peaks, one over 12,000 feet, Peter finally makes it out alive. Along the way though is a tale fraught with danger from the elements that demonstrates his iron mental strength, living on moths and sleeping in burnt out trees, while suffering from a broken ankle, several broken ribs and numerous lacerations. A true appreciation is gained for the blessing of shelter, food and loving friends a family.	2005-02-21
US	53070673	R1INDOV7UQN9BJ	0812533313	787762089	The Worthing Saga	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Worth a read	I first discovered Orson Scott Card as did most everyone else, reading Enders Game, in fact one of my top ten books is its sequel Speaker for the Dead. The Worthing Saga is Card's very first story he wrote. It demonstrates his promise as an author. While he acknowledges that he afterwards rewrote the entire tale, the basic plot and premise remained. One thing that I enjoy about Scott novel's is how he creates a moral dilemma, often through tension of a desired ideal, and the consequences of faulty execution. This story spans thousands of years and follows the diaspora of the human race among the stars, the scientific miracle of living \\"forever\\" and the power to save that developed in the progeny of Jason Worthing. The dilemma centers on the age old question of suffering; why we suffer, what if you could prevent suffering and some of the possible consequences of eliminating suffering.	2005-02-21
US	53070673	RUDA525C3DUUX	067131999X	608031099	Balshazzar's Serpent	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not bad - a good start to an interesting series	I'll admit up front I have never written a book, I am a consumer not a producer of books. I acknowledge the fact that good ideas and great stories are hard to come by. I'll also acknowledge that in art there are themes and patterns that are unique to an artist and make up distinctive and recognizable styles. However I expect this more in terms of styling than story line. Having read a ton of Chalker (since I was 12) there are times when his themes though could be construed as bordering on the lack of original ideas. I wouldn't exactly characterize this book in that vein, but I did notice at least one simliarity, namely the setup of planetary system which three inhabitable worlds was similar to his The Four Lords of the Diamond series (which I highly reccomend). However I can't fault him for that entirely, just noting a thematic similarity. <br />Regardless, its clear Chalker sets out to write a series, and this book largely sets up the books to come, but I found that over all I enjoyed the book. The major story lines centers on a evangelical Christian group proslytizing colonial outpost worlds that have been cut off from contact since the \\"Great Silence\\". I was worried that Chalker would use this as a means to grind an ax against religion in general, and was pleasantly surprised to find not only a fairly balanced account, but an exploration of faith in the face of doubt and the individualism of worship juxtaposed against congregational preaching.<br />I am looking forward to finishing the series, and am glad that the other two books have already been published and I won't have to wait for publication to finish the series.	2004-03-22
US	53070673	RI02CQUW02YD5	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	1	8	21	N	N	First 100 pages are great, but.....	I had finished the first half of Gene Wolfe's Shadow and Claw, which is actually the first book of his series, and while visiting the bookstore I was captivated by a new book from Neal Stephenson, so I picked up a copy and while waiting for a movie to start I got captivated and jumped ship. However I am stopping. I hit 200 pages and my interest and frankly desire to read further have ground to a halt. Strange given that the story grabbed me enough to make me jump books. What started off interesting wore me down eventually with the tedium. Part of what sparked my interest was the fact that Stephenson set's the story is set in 1600's during the birth of Natural Philosophy and the Scientific Revolution, at least initially following the life of Isaac Newton. However from there the store began to mire in detail that while I am sure his historically valid or imaginatively created by Stepphenson, did not hold my interest. The point and plot began to get lost in the verbosity of the story. I don't want to live the life of Isaac Newton day by day. I felt bad, because I really wanted to like it, and in general I never stop a book but will slog through them. And since this is a three part series I wonder what Stephenson's plans are? Has he already finished the other two? Will he even bother? Looking at Amazon 12 of the 14 reviews were negative. :( Too bad, but too true.<br />[...]	2003-10-06
US	53070673	R1BKFNF4L5A2P9	0375422331	168525794	Isaac Newton	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Newton was not a Newtonian	One of the aspirations of my life is to come to a layman's understanding of science. One general aspect of learning and teaching that has always fascinated me has been the ability to present a subject matter in such a fashion that despite its complexity, can be understood by presenting simple metaphor and building concepts in a linear fashion leading to comprehension. A dream of mine would be someday to teach general history survey courses in college, and perhaps in High School as well, and do so in such a fashion that was both exciting, inspiring and educational. Anyway, science is an area that I am trying to build up an understanding of. I have a friend who inspires me, he is a bona fide a nuclear physicist and it always amazes me at his scientific knowledge. In pursuit of understanding I set off to read this biography.<br />Gleick has written a terse and dense biography of one of the most intellectually influential &quot;scientists&quot; of the &quot;modern&quot; era. I write scientist and modern in quotes to denote that our perception is particular skewed with the latent meaning we bring to both of those concepts and that not only is it not clear that Newton associated himself with either terms, it is certain that his world view was very different from our own. One particularly striking point along these lines, was the fact that Newton was avid in his pursuit of alchemy, although this fact was not known till long after his death. In the current Newtonian world of formalized science there is a clear distinction between the reputable study of the elements known as chemistry and the disreputable unscientific magical study of alchemy. But Newton lived in a pre-Newtonian world. Newton himself was not a Newtonian, in all the sense that we think of the word.<br />Gleick makes Newton accessible. He distills an essence of Newton, and skillfully presents vista's into Newton's life, in a short 191 pages of a very small book whose dimensions are only 8 by 5 1/2 inches. This is amended by 47 pages of footnotes as well as 18 pages of acknowledgment and sources. I am not knocking the size, merely noting its shape.<br />Gleick is a great writer, mostly pulling off a well written and understandable presentation of Newton, his research, writings and habits. He has done a great service, for Newton was a prodigious writer. Tucked away in one of the last footnotes of the book is an enlightening quote regarding one of Newton's books described as a &quot;work of colossal tedium...read today only by the tiniest remnant who for their sins must pass through its purgatory&quot;. Gleick notes that Newton had written a million words prior to the publication of one. Newton was a very isolated and withdrawn individual who often would spend days in his room, and he prodigiously copied entire books, paraphrasing and filling volumes with his own writing. Writing seemed a vehicle for focusing and organizing his thought processes. Much of his writing was never published, and so this biography in many ways allows a view of man whose breadth otherwise would be inaccessible to save but a remnant, if not by the staggering volume, then the inscrutable intellectualism.<br />One final point that struck me was how much of the modern world view, that I am so much akin to, is grounded in Newtonian principles. Gleick notes that &quot;What Newton learned entered into the marrow of what we know without knowing how we know it.&quot; Namely a reducible universe, with first causes, and laws that govern behavior in a universal fashion. First principles and universal gravity have at their philosophical underpinnings fundamental principles that are the very fabric of the way we perceive the world.<br />Post Script, while Newton described and laid bare the laws of the universe, he could not do so without wonder and mystery. Gravity had no known cause, no known agent as its first principle, Newton noted this &quot;question I have left to the consideration of my readers&quot; Andso it goes.so it goes.	2003-09-19
US	53070673	R1W9TQOZ5JGHYG	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Tiger by the tale	This was given to me by Chris Fry at work, and I started it when I left my then current book in Utah. I am not sure why but I was skeptical at first with this book. Possibly because Chris told me that in many ways it was similar to Peace Like a River, which I really really enjoyed, and was therefore a tough comparison to make. And initially I had a bit of a tough time getting into the book. But after the first 90 pages setting the stage I really started to enjoy the story. I especially enjoyed the religious discussions. An aspect of religion that has always fascinated my has been commonality. Most religions, including my own, stress exclusivity. Yann forces an examination of the one great whole circumscribing truth in discussing, Islam, Christianity and Hinduism. Something that struck me in particular was the central role of prayer in the Islamic faith, something that was common knowledge but I had never considered, especially in light of my own beliefs. Another aspect that I pondered on was the encounter with the divine. A lengthy quote from the book:<br />&quot;One such time I left town and on my way back, at a point where the land was high and I could see the sea to my left and down the road a long ways, I suddenly felt I was in heaven. The spot was in fact no different from when I had passed it not long before, but my way of seeing it had changed. The feeling, a paradoxical mix of pulsing energy and profound peace, was intense and blissful. Whereas before the road, the sea, the trees, the air, the sun all spoke differently to me, now they spoke one language of unity. Tree took account of road, which was aware of air, which was mindful of sea, which shared things with the sun. Every element lived in harmonious relation with its neighbor, and all was kith and kin. I knelt a mortal; I rose an immortal. I felt like the centre of a small circle coinciding with the centre of a much large one. Atman met Allah&quot;<br />Later on in the story he writes:<br />&quot;At moments of wonder, it is easy to avoid small thinking, to entertain thoughts that span the universe...&quot;<br />This made me question: &quot;When was the last time I encountered the divine?&quot; My daughter's birth? Holding Sofi for the first time in the hospital? Surely not the most recent, but certainly two of the most memorable moments. Another was recently at scout camp in Wolfeboro. We camped one night on a elevated flat of granite above and away from camps. The night sky wrapped around us with a myriad of stars, more than I remembered there being or had seen for a long long time. The milky way splashed bright and wide across the heavens, and laying there on my back I could all but feel the curvature of the atmosphere and the frame of space that spread out as the universe cradled around the horizon. The majesty of space and God's creation was awe inspiring.<br />Finally, and briefly so as to not spoil the meat of the story, I enjoyed the story of struggle. The mythology, the allegory and the tale of survival. Thought provoking, in a way reminiscent, though much more lyrical, of the story of the Essex.ments of wonder, it is easy to avoid small thinking, to entertain thoughts that span the universe...&quot;<br />This made me question: &quot;When was the last time I encountered the divine?&quot; My daughter's birth? Holding Sofi for the first time in the hospital? Surely not the most recent, but certainly two of the most memorable moments. Another was recently at scout camp in Wolfeboro. We camped one night on a elevated flat of granite above and away from camps. The night sky wrapped around us with a myriad of stars, more than I remembered there being or had seen for a long long time. The milky way splashed bright and wide across the heavens, and laying there on my back I could all but feel the curvature of the atmosphere and the frame of space that spread out as the universe cradled around the horizon. The majesty of space and God's creation was awe inspiring.<br />Finally, and briefly so as to not spoil the meat of the story, I enjoyed the story of struggle. The mythology, the allegory and the tale of survival. Thought provoking, in a way reminiscent, though much more lyrical, of the story of the Essex.	2003-09-19
US	53070673	RN8JU4ZS4YN2Z	0060931809	112419171	The Map That Changed the World	Books	3	1	7	N	N	Hyperboyle in the title	Stacey gave me this book last year for Christmas. It is written by Simon Winchester, who also wrote The Professor and the Madman, which was a fascinating book about the creation of the Oxford English Dictionary. This story was a bit more challenging to get through. I did learn many interesting things, but the topic was just not as thrilling, nor was the story or the telling as compelling. And clearly the title engages in hyperbole. Not entirely sure I can reccomend this book in general, perhaps if your really into geology.<br />One interesting fact: the largest division of time is eon, of which there have been four, the current being the Phanerozoic, which means \\"visible life\\". The division goes from eon, to era, periods and epochs.<br />	2003-09-19
US	53070673	R194ECRRV6ZT3L	0671042262	971468860	The Blue Nowhere: A Novel	Books	3	9	13	N	N	The blue bore...	I found this I book a bit of a bore. I have read 4 of Deaver's other books, the three Lincoln Rhme novels, The Bone Collector, The Empty Chair and The Coffin Dancer as well as the The Devils Teardrop where Lincoln makes a guest appearance. I really like his Rhyme novels, I find them a rare twist on the forensic investigator genre, and I think Lincoln is a really unique and interesting character, but maybe if I was a forensic scientist myself I would react to those novel's as I did to The Blue Nowhere. This novel is about comupters, hacking, the Internet and is set in Silicon Valley and the greater Bay area. All of which I know more about than the average reader. a) I live in the Bay area. b) I work for a software company that builds software used to build applications many of which are internet based. c) While not a hacker by any stretch of the imagination I am a programmer by profession. <br />Deaver took great literary license in his terminology, description, and attitude towards computers. To the laymen I suppose this would all be accepted, however it grated against me as exaggerated untruth. I couldn't get past the ever present phony context to even appreciate the story of the mystery. I plowed through it with not much anticipation or excitement. The big revelation at the end was very disappointing, so I quickly finished and got on to the next novel.	2002-12-24
US	53070673	R1O6BQJP3D263D	0380818809	87950657	Deep Fathom	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Read his other books first	Well, This book is pretty farfetched. It is on the one one hand why I read it, following my pattern of \\"serious\\" and \\"fun\\". On the otherhand it had so many unbelievable plot lines and so much license was taken that the usual suspension of belief that accompanies pulp fiction was not even possible. I have read Rollin's two other books and like them both, but I think he strained himself on this one, couldnt come up with appropriate plot lines and hence cheated in writing this book. I can't say I would really reccomend this book, but if you enjoy summer thriller read's check out his other two.<br />	2002-12-23
US	53070673	R2OCFPDNVAODN8	0312877714	862678024	Primal Shadows: A Dark Thriller of Papua New Guinea	Books	4	0	2	N	N	What men will do for gold	Alan is another author that I read as a teenager. I distinctly remember reading all the Pip and Flinx novels.<br />Alan does not however just write science fiction, this was a more standard adventure story, along the lines of Clive Cussler. Your usual moral tale, obsession, lust, priorities, betrayal, death, murder and most of all gold. All set in PNG, Papua New Guinea. Foster as usual turns a fine tale that is entertaining and educational.<br />One striking thing about this book is the visceral sense of detail that Foster paints of PNG. I have read several books on polar exploration and as harsh and stark as the artic environment, PNG seems so in the opposite direction. Where the land of ice and snow are a dearth of life and variety, New Guinea is an overwhelming explosion of life. Where the environment threatens to kill you just as quickly.<br />...	2002-12-23
US	53070673	R3V0U9NG5OK7E3	0679734163	392770289	To Engineer Is Human: The Role of Failure in Successful Design	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Interesting look at failure in structural engineering	I am not really sure how I came across this book. I think it was by following relevant links on Amazon. Anyway I bought this as well as The Evolution of Useful Things at the same time. I found this a very insightful reading in light of my occupation as a software engineer. Several of my coworkers recently had an email conversation regarding the quailty of software engineered products vs. \\"real\\" engineer's and their feats of construction, bridges, airplanes and buildings all things that Petroski covers in details. <br />Some additional thoughts on how structural engineering is different from Enterprise Application Software Engineering:<br />1. --In general software is unlimited, where as Structural Engineering has natural laws. Higher level Patterns are pretty constant, where as within the created construct of software they are reinvited (Object Patterns, EJB Patterns)<BR>2. --structures have the added requirement of no death, where as Enterprise Software only has revenue associated with it, not as powerful a motivator as death.<BR>3. --software is interactive with behavior, where as a bridge is a bridge<br />[...]	2002-12-23
US	53070673	R1JKTQUIQ6HFO3	0130097187	29793137	The Essential Guide to Wireless Communications Applications (2nd Edition)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Educational explanation of wireless	I really got tired of not understanding wireless tech talk: G3 networks etc. I also wanted to understand why my cell phone kept fading in and out and dropping calls as I drove certain routes. So I bought this book and read it. The book does a good job of explaining in easy to understand terms the technology. The big revelation or understanding point to me was that EVERYTHING wireless is analogous to the radio, with broadcast points (cell towers) and receivers (cell phones). The difference is one of frequency. I finally got the analog vs. digital concept that eluded me for so long for some reason. While attempting to do justice to all major wireless regions of the world, US, Asia (Japan) and Europe I found the British author biased to his home turf. Which is expected and fine but I wanted something slightly more balanced. Towards the end I became a very selective skimmer and did not really finish the book, but I got out of it what I wanted.	2002-12-23
US	53070673	R3HAD0NHZH20G	034541005X	202672214	The Power of One: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A inspiring tale of South Africa	[...]<br />I came up on this book at the recommendation of a colleague, she mentioned it was one of her favorite books. I bought a copy from Amazon and it sat on my shelf for sometime. After Cold Mountain it became my next book. I was reminded while reading of a book that I might have been required to read in high school, a tale of high moral lesson. The story also reminded me very much of the Speilberg movie Empire of the Sun, not for the content as much for common factors. A young boy in perilous times, a journey of self discovery and ultimately hope along a lonely trail. Boxing occupies a central theme as the boy, Peekay's means for discipline and character development. It was truly an inspiring read. <br />I recently saw the movie version, and the book is so much better. I found the acting pretty bad, the characters looked like characters in whom you could never see as more than an actor in a role, and the whole love story was silly and unnecessary. Don't watch the movie, read the book.	2002-12-23
US	53070673	R3E4W7NM2S1LG7	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A book I hated to see end	A colleague of mine recently finished Angle of Repose by Wallace Stegner and encouraged me to read it. I thought we had a copy laying around but instead found that we only had Crossing to Safety so I picked it up and started to read. <br />This book was perfect for the fall season, I suppose it may be that I only feel that way since I read it in the fall, and if I had read it during the summer I would have felt the same then, but something in the tone and meter just felt so fallish to me. <br />Self-referentially the author asks in dialogue \\"How do you make a book that anyone will read out of lives as quiet as these?\\" The first chapter starts in the twilight of the character's life and then invests the rest of the story setting the stage for the setting sun.<br />The book was a joy to read, due to the rich and beautiful writing. There are times when reading books you skim the sentences, with this book I found my self savoring every word and truly encompassed by the writing. The first half is so lyrical in content, I could in many ways identify with the poor married couple starting life out with nothing to eke by on. As the story progresses the idealism of youth is tempered by the reality of life. Each Eden has its serpent, and life has a way of providing crosses to bear. I wont spoil any of the tale by telling.<br />This has to be one of the best books I have ever read, a wonderful journey that I did not regret and was sad to see end.<br /> [...]	2002-12-23
US	53070673	R9VDHUPVMMX2R	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Predictable pattern but interesting thriller	Michael Cricton's story telling pattern is pretty predictable. His story line is rooted in modern research, (how many other fictional thriller novel's do you know that end with an appendix of cited sources), where the outcome is carried to a plausible fictional extreme and wrapped up in a tightly told tale of adventure and mystery. Not that this is bad thing, this pattern offers plenty of room to write original story lines, and in the end Crichton knows how to spin a great yarn. This book brings together nano-technology, computer software and gnome technology. I didn't find this book as good as TimeLine, which was a great book, quite similar to DoomsDay in many regards, but much tighter to read. Nonetheless I enjoyed this book as a quick read, a brief past-time pause, like a cool lemonade on a hot day, refreshing even though it doesn't last that long.[...]	2002-12-22
US	53070673	R19LI4DWSQVW8A	0743216474	479769502	Half in Love: Stories	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Half way gone	This is a collection of short stories, by Montana born author Maile Meloy. I knew nothing about the book, and it was recommended by a colleague at work, who graduated in English from Princeton.<br />I don't believe I have read a short story since High School (To Build a Fire), even then I read them discretely, so reading an entire book of short stories was a shock to my reading sensibilities. One of the reasons I read is to become lost in the story and with short stories, well they are short, so the experience is something entirely different. I think with short stories (at least ones this short), the sensation was for me more visceral. After reading them since their breadth was narrow I could stop and ponder them, their meaning and the feeling they invoked. However since there were so many stories, it was difficult to just sit down and read one right after another. Each new story was an entirely different set of characters, different context and setting; it was difficult to be able to shift gears between stories. I had to often pause and allow time for settling before reading the next story.<br />There were several themes that I observed acros the stories, first was a sense of life in Montana, the general attitude of its inhabitants towards life, nature and new comers. There was also as the title suggests a great deal said and unsaid about love. Every relationship was poignantly troubled in some regard, \\"half in love\\" is not half way there, but a relationship that never made it and never will or one that was and is half way gone. I don't believe there was any tale where the couple was truly happy. Even in the moving story of Kite Whistler Aquamarine where a man desperately struggles to save a filly born in the dead of winter and frost bitten, his wife has no admiration for his love and dedication to the horses, more she seems annoyed and disdainfully judgmental. Having said that I did not find the book depressing, and I enjoyed so much diversity, variety and interest across so many stories in such a short book.<br />One thing that did bother me about the physical layout of the book was that the left page title had the authors name and the right page title had the book's name. This made it difficult to know what was the name of the short story you were reading, and it made a particular short story hard to find.<br />...t across so many stories in such a short book.<br />One thing that did bother me about the physical layout of the book was that the left page title had the authors name and the right page title had the book's name. This made it difficult to know what was the name of the short story you were reading, and it made a particular short story hard to find.<br />...	2002-12-22
US	53070673	RIOVGET1AWSM5	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Too much back and forth	I am always searching for new science fiction, I figured that books that won acclaim and awards came highly recommended and this book had won two of them the Hugoand the Nebula awards. I don't know that I would concur with the awards. I did enjoy many aspects of the book, however I had several gripes. First of all, I thought because of the way she wrote the book it was too long, comprising of over 500 pages. I am not opposed to long books, as long as they are able to justify their length, which due to my other critiques I did not feel she accomplished. <br />The premise of the book was intriguing: Time travel (a Sci Fi standard) where historian's in modern age (2050's) travel back in time to previous ages for study and observation. This book is about a young college girl Kirvin's journey to a medieval Christmas in 1320 England, to a small village just out side of Oxford.<br />Willis does a great job of leading up to Kirvin's \\"drop\\", but from there, rather than focusing on the medieval story she alternates each chapter, back and forth between modern day. I found myself with really little care for the modern story line and was quite annoyed at how long she drug on certain points of the tale. For well over half of the book she beats to death the mysterious cause of a modern plague (which seemed rather anachronistic to me) and created unendingly tedious intrigue over what possibly had gone wrong with the drop. This got in the way of what I thought was Wilis's real power, rich detailed story telling regarding medieval life. This storyline was fascinating and insightful, largely due to Willis's extensive background research. The last fourth of the book was good read, where Willis finally wraps up the mysteries of the book and gets on with the anchor of the story. I won't spoil the ending, and you'll have to decide if the book sounds intriguing enough to read.<br />My wife on the otherhad just finished this book and loved it.<br />...	2002-12-22
US	53070673	RM55RGASVJ3NB	0679603387	21744022	Angle of Repose (Modern Library)	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Settling into our lives	After reading Crossing to Safety I was hungry for another Stegner novel. It was for this novel he won the Pulitzer prize. While at Zion's this year Jen Nuttal proclaimed the best thing about the book was the title. While I found a lot more to like than just the title, I did find this book harder to become engrossed with than Crossing to Safety This book was not as tight a novel as the former. And a couple of things bothered me as I began reading. First was his literary device of a \\"modern\\" (1970's) grandson telling writing the history of his grandmother, where the grandson often uses letters of the grandmother directly, and other times the grandson fictionalizes or dramatizes dialogue to to tell the story. Often in the course of the dialogue the grandson breaks from dialogue and interposes his own modern voice and cuts the story short. Another thing that bothered me was how he often broke the story in what I thought awkward ways at the romantically intimate points of the story. Finally I understood Stegner needing a device to tell his story, but the modern aspects of the story initially seemed at times contrived. Interestingly Stegner addressed and resolved each concern in the course of the novel, just not when he introduces the wrinkles but much later in the story.<br />Despite these irritations and pacing somewhat slower than Crossing, I really came to love the story and about midway through became thoroughly entranced. Some of the highlights for me were: The richness of the relationships that Stegner writes about. The fact that 90% of the book is written in the first hand voice of a 19th century Victorian woman, quite an accomplishment for a writer. The vivid descriptions of the early west. The insight into the Victorian world view, that had never really been as approachable for me as through the eyes of Susan. Finally was the concept of the settling of a life into the Angle of Repose. This as well as Crossing really got me thinking about the winding down of life and where your at and what your doing, versus how I have lived so much of my life up till now. The innocent days of youth, the troubled turbulent teenage years, and the twenties and now thirties pushing pushing pushing up the hill so fast that I sometimes don't stop to ask where I am going. There is such a sense throughout Angle of Repose of striving for the break, waiting to arrive, wanting to prove, holding out for hope and in then end settling to an angle that while reposed was not more a compromise of two lives uneasily leaning against each other rather than comfortably living together.<br />...and where your at and what your doing, versus how I have lived so much of my life up till now. The innocent days of youth, the troubled turbulent teenage years, and the twenties and now thirties pushing pushing pushing up the hill so fast that I sometimes don't stop to ask where I am going. There is such a sense throughout Angle of Repose of striving for the break, waiting to arrive, wanting to prove, holding out for hope and in then end settling to an angle that while reposed was not more a compromise of two lives uneasily leaning against each other rather than comfortably living together.<br />...	2002-12-22
US	53070673	R1OS6FPAPETIW6	1586481592	64931643	My War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nostalgic look back at WW2	Reading this book is like having the last 5 minute segment of 60 minutes go on for hours. You can hear Andy Rooney with every page you read. The phrasing, the sarcasm. The wry sardonic observations, which after you read them seem obvious. I found this book an enjoyable read of a first hand account of the air war in London, the land war, taking of Paris and Germany and final observations from India and China. The book is more Andy's narrative of what he saw over there, versus a history. He does little to fill in the story around his experience. I suspect that I enjoyed it more having read several other history books on the subject. <br />As always Andy is opinionated, however to his credit he largely acknowledges when they border on prejudice. This is balanced by a lot more opportunity than 5 of the 60 minutes to round out his overall view. On 60 minutes all you get is his sarcasm in this book you have much well rounded view.<br />...	2002-12-22
US	53070673	R1SSMWL97OXDY8	0804115486	335815295	Enigma	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Intersting mystery, even though the &quot;theme&quot; was old	I found this a harder book to wade through than Fatherland.<BR>I suppose this was partially due to a darker tone to the book, maybe this was imparted by the fact that much of the book take's place in the middle of the night.  I am sure another aspect was that the some of the subject matter was a bit redundant to me, having recently finished the lenghty tome Cryptonomicon by Neal Stephenson. I was also put off by the now familiar, having read FatherLand and Archangel previously, literary and thematic twist that Harris employs of couching the revealation of historical pogroms and monstrostisties as the cause of the books mystery.   All of these three books employ this same device, so that by the end of Enigma I was not that surprised by the historical cause of the &quot;enigma&quot;.<br />Having said all of that, I did enjoy the book, especially the insight into the accomplishments of Bletchley Park as well as the mystery Claire's dissapearance.  I guess it was just not as enjoyable as Fatherland, and it was probably a mistake to tear through three of his books in so short a time period.	2002-01-05
US	53070673	R36J8JR81FIAT2	0380794934	156322016	The Calcutta Chromosome	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Slow starting, interesting mystery with a disapointing end	[...]There was a lilting rhythm to this book that had a familiar resonation. <BR>        The turn of the phrase, the dialog, the manner of story telling was very <BR>        reminiscent of The <BR>        Moors Last Sigh by Salman Rushdie a book I have read but not reviewed <BR>        here yet. I don't want to make broad sweeping stereotypes regarding the <BR>        an Indian style, but I will at the minimum note in passing a similarity <BR>        between this and the one book I have read by Rushdie. </p><BR>      <br />Having said that I found this in the end an unsatisfying book. It was <BR>        a book of many things, science fiction, a medical history of malaria, <BR>        and a spiritual explanation of transmigration of the soul. I found it <BR>        a bit slow in starting up, once going my interest was peaked regarding <BR>        the mystery of the discovery of malaria and the hidden truth behind it, <BR>        however my main disappointment was that the resolution to the mystery <BR>        and the ending itself were poorly wrought. Barely even explained, unclearly <BR>        described I was left scratching my head with a \\"huh?\\" </p><BR>      <br />I don't know if I would recommend this book, I would state the caveats <BR>        and let you make your own choice.</p>	2002-01-05
US	53070673	R2219SIY0GDLRY	0425154092	103272092	From Potter's Field (Kay Scarpetta)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Not very much depth or substance to this one	<br />The house we stayed in for New Years had a ton of books on its shelves and since it was raining a lot we had plenty of time to read. I picked up this book New Years Eve and finished it New Year's Day. I chose it for a couple of reasons, first off I had just finished a historical book and it was time for something light and I had recently seen a 20/20 episode where Patricia Cornwell claimed to have solved the identity of Jack the Ripper. So I was intrigued. I like mystery and thrillers and I knew she had written a lot of books in the genre and my wife had read several of hers and liked them. First off I must say that Patricia was stretching the word per page ratio with this book. I was reading the hard cover edition and the margins were very wide and each paged ended like 3 inches from the bottom with some silly footer taking up a lot of space. Secondly and partially as a consequence it was a very fast read. Finally I would not recommend this book, but it was entertaining in some regards. I don't know about any of her other novel's (I think I will check out one more of her's as a fair shake, in particular there was one book that one a bunch of awards one year that looks promising) but I found this to be a weak example of the genre. Lets face it, in any genre there are real works of literature that are the top of that particular genre, say Tolkien in fantasy, I am not sure what is the supreme literary example of mysteries but whatever it may be this was a bland consume. I didn't really care for it much. It is basically your typical psycho serial killer vs. the \\"law enforcement\\" individual. In this case Cornwell's hero is a heroine, Kay Scarpetta and Chief Medical Examiner of Virginia, for which I think she has earned a lot of interest. However for a thriller of this type I enjoy James Patterson's Alex Cross series much better.	2002-01-04
US	53070673	RU0ELI315UBU	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Ghost in you	<br />This is the tale of the Army Rangers rescue mission to save American POWs, many whom were survivor's of the Bataan Death March. The POW's were interred at Cabanatuan Prison in the Philippines, and the returning invasion of McArthur worried the Japanese would massacre them. The author alternates chapters between the stories of the POWs and the Rangers. The POW chapters cover the fall of Bataan, the Death March and the interment at the Cabanatuan Prison. The Ranger chapters briefly cover the history of the Rangers and discusses in detail the preparations for and the raid itself. Despite the historical topic, the book is a real page turner. The author, who is a journalist, does a great job of creating suspense where the outcome is known, and paints a graphic portrait of life as a POW.<br />One commendable thing I found about the book was the evenhandedness of the accounts of the Japanese war crimes and atrocities. There was no attempt made to lambast the Japanese, some effort was made to explain their acts without presumption of being able to fully divine their intent and yet at the same time there was no exoneration either. One of the most fascinating themes for me in college was that of War. Why we go to war? What devices are used by political entities to employ a countries resources, human and otherwise in war? etc. One of my favorite quotes from the book was: \\"the story of war is always the story of hate; it makes no difference with whom one fights. The hate destroys you...\\" I highly recommend this book.	2002-01-04
US	53070673	R1I29JJIP9AQBB	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A great way to appreciate the cost of war	... <br />I started reading this after having read Undaunted Courage, I had actually purchased it at a used bookstore several years ago hoping to read it at Yellowstone, but never got around to it. See my general comments in the review of that book regarding Ambrose and his style of writing, they apply to this work as well. <br />World War II is a subject that Ambrose knows well. His \\"big break\\" came as a biographer for General Eisenhower, the supreme commander of allied forces at D-Day. Ambrose was also the technical consultant for Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan. <br />Rich anecdotal evidence and a tapestry of understanding place you squarely in the action. The long preparation's, the tedious and detailed planning. The drawn out anticipation of the day. Finally the culmination is the detailed commencement of the attack: division by division: 1st and 29th, 82nd and 101st, beach by beach: Utah, Omaha, Gold, Juno, Sword, branch by branch: Air Force, Navy, Army and country by country, America, Britan, Canada.<br />Once again the stark revelatory insights make the the history memorable Men sinking under the weight of their own equipment as they hit the waters. Infantry making their own way to the bluffs and up the cliffs with very little organized direction and few appointed leaders, but many men of the hour. The endless flotilla of landing craft. The destructive power of the \\"big guns\\", the US Navy's 14 inch gun's and the German's 88s (millimeters).<br />Highly recommenced as an appreciative understanding of the human cost of war and the force of organization.	2002-01-04
US	53070673	R1C2BP3HE2H29N	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ambrose knows how to write history and proves it	.... <br />This was an awesome book. Ambrose is a historian by training who writes for popular consumption. Meaning you get an excellently researched book, that has footnotes, without the pedantic plodding that history is often stereotyped with, largely stemming from the boring survey books so many are forced to read as part of a required college class. More importantly though is that Ambrose is an amazing writer, he can really tell a tale. He understands the key necessity of primary sources and that history is the anecdotes of someone else's experience. His story, the history, comes to life with the appropriate background and first hand accounts that bring to life the times of which he writes. This is the amazing story of the Lewis and Clark expedition. It is a story that Ambrose is passionate about, having spent countless hours walking the trail himself with his family in addition to pouring over the journals themselves. The resulting work is a fascinating view of the world of Lewis and Clark and the incredible journey they took. Like any good historian Ambrose creates the world view from which the characters and the story takes place. This provides the contextual understanding of Jefferson and Lewis's motivation and generates what I consider to be one of history's true joys, the \\"a-ha\\" insight into a historical event that gives real meaning to your knowledge. The fulfillment of the \\"get thee understanding\\". This is the meat of knowing that hangs on the bones of fact.<br />For example I found it insightful regarding the modus operandi and attitude of the Virginia Tobacco plantations, versus say that of the German farmers further south. The descriptions of the various native American's and their cultures that the expedition encountered was amazing. I thought it striking that grizzly bears were so common in the Rockies. And lastly I was shocked that Meriwether Lewis committed suicide while traveling from St. Louis to D.C.<br />Read this book!	2002-01-04
US	53070673	RXM3I3C3VM5RB	078670621X	104115308	Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Just Buy IT	.... <br />OK, just go order this book right now and read it. <br />Now that we have that out of the way. Wow what a story! Ernest Shackleton what a man. Since the south pole had already been \\"discovered\\", in 1914 Shackelton decided to dog sled across the continent of Antarctica! Unfortunately opon reaching the east coast his ship became locked in the ice eventually completely demolished by the ice flow. Cast out they lived on a floating ice pack for five months! When they were down to one small berg they abandoned the ice and sailed in very small lifeboats to a barren rock Elephant Island. Here the majority stayed behind and Shackleton and small group sailed again in one of the lifeboats over 600 miles to a whaling port! Talk about endurance, the word pales in the accomplishment of these men. And mostly in the fortitude of will that one man Shackleton had. <br />Some enlightening aspects:<br />The men on Elephant Island so desperate for cigarettes they smoked the inside packing of their boots.<br />Shackleton dirty, stinky and having just climbed over impassible mountains knocking on the door of the whaling portmasters door and stating:<br />\\"My Name is Shackleton\\".<br />I highly recommend this white-knuckle, bone crunching, gut-wrenching adventure story that you will not be able to put down and will enthrall you. I was so excited I also bought the complete photo record by Frank Hurly.<BR>....	2002-01-04
US	53070673	R2WLSSOXBVYGPL	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	2	1	12	N	N	Couldnt finish too long	I just could not get into this book, I never finished it, it was tooooo long and did not get me interetested soon enough. :( Mark G	2000-02-14
