US	53089819	R3UI11O96K3GP0	1411619188	177311985	Crossing an Ocean Under Power	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Not a "How to" But a Useful, Engaging, Record of Ocean-hopping for Small Power Boat Owners	As a fan of Beebe's \\"Voyaging Under Power\\" and a jealous admirer of the Nordhavn 62 expedition style trawler yacht, I read with interest about the 2004 transatlantic convoy sponsored by Pacific Asian Enterprises, builder of the Nordhavn line of high seas and offshore trawler yachts. I don't own a Nordhavn 62 (I wish) and my seafaring is limited to adolescent adventures in my small sailing skiff and the occasional offshore fishing trip, venturing out not much past 20 miles from the shore. I had followed the adventures of the Nordhavn sponsored 18-boat convoy on the Trawler Transat website where I  read Ken Williams' fascinating emails of his experiences on the Sans Souci, his Nordhavn 62 in the \\"fast boat\\" portion of the expedition. This book is NOT a further revision of Jim Leishman's (Nordhavn CEO)1993 update of Beebe's 1975 \\"bible\\" for power boat circumnavigators.  <br /> <br />It is not an edited digest of his informative emails, but rather a compilation of them. This said, they are quite useful in that Williams is not an experienced offshore navigator, but admits that prior to this venture, his trips have been limited to sight-of-land excursions offshore, never exceeding 8 hours. They upgraded to the N62 simply because they wanted an eminently seaworthy vessel capable of handling whatever rough seas they might encounter in their short hops. So the book is written in an accessible style, from the vantage point of a retired software designer who needed a lot of hand-holding on this bold adventure. The group of 18 were, as the origin might indicate, largely made up of Nordhavns, though it was not limited to craft from that builder.  <br /> <br />Notwithstanding the journal format, the book contains a lot of information on how to prepare, provision, and maintain a power boat on a long-diatance cruise spanning open ocean. There are some overview or stock-taking synopses as well as other viewpoints, such as that of the chef and Ken Williams' wife Roberta.  <br /> <br/>All in all, an informative, entertaining and salty tale and a <br />good one or two evening's read. The ample photos nicely complement the text. <br /> <br />	2005-10-12
US	53089819	R3970IM3X2PSXO	1574884069	338810103	Drake: For God, Queen, and Plunder (Military Profiles)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Excellent Short Introduction to Drake's Life, Times, and Exploits	When I found out that Brassey's Military Profiles series was doing an assessment of Francis Drake, I was pleased that this complex and almost legendary figure was going to be summed up in a handy snapshot reference work. At 89 pages of text, this endeavor was quite a challenge. Dudley Wade has managed to include all the controversies and episodes while providing a surprisingly full and fair an appraisal in such a concise book.      My introduction to Drake was a reading of Julian Corbett's one volume 1912 biography (rather than his more scholarly but ponderous 1899 two volume treatment incorporating the dawn of the British Navy). While a handy summary of Drake's career, in just over 200 pages, it was written for a British audience and assumed some background knowledge of the personalities, parties and political-religious quarrels both within England and among its European (principally Spanish) antagonists. Plus Corbett's Edwardian British chauvinism and dated idiom is a bit off-putting.   I've since read works on the English \\"sea dogs\\" and renaissance era piracy and seafaring, and was looking for a good, brief overview of Drake employing modern (i.e. late 20th century) research.     Chapter 1, Prelude (pp. 3-13). This is a valuable chapter setting the exploits of Drake in total context. This includes the development of seafaring/navigation, maritime trade and conquest, the vagaries and rivalries of the search for routes to the sources of spices (and later, more fortuitously precious metals and gems) in the East, and the rise of Protestant-Catholic (not always so neatly demarcated) antagonism, later focused on the struggle between Protestant England and Caotholic Spain and their allies, pawns, dupes and double-agents. All this is set into English court and religious history - often identical-and the various political intrigues surrounding Elizabeth I.     Chapter 2, Young Man Drake (pp. 15-28). Born of the lesser gentry (economically akin to the present day lower middle class) Drake's father, a tailor by trade, became a preacher in the new Church of England and thus a target for a Catholic backlash against  Edward VI's promulgation of a common prayer book. Fleeing local persecution the family wound up living in a ship's hulk converted to a home near Plymouth where young Drake was exposed to seafarers of the port as his father received a very modest stipend to preach the new gospel to them.  Here Dudley speculates on the exposure of the boy to the nuts and bolts, or knots and splices, of practical seamanship,  while his father imbued him with guiding principles of his Protestant faith and a concomitant hatred of Catholicism - though not of Catholics as individuals. The brief return of the pro-Catholic \\"Bloody Mary\\" to the throne marked another stage in the young Drake's career, wherein for his son's safety, his father agreed that his eldest son should leave home at the age of 13. Dudley notes two theories about his schooling in seamanship at this point. One, that generally prevalent in early histories and most popular accounts is that Drake became apprenticed to a coastal merchant, who upon his death, bequeathed Drake his vessel. The alternate account, one seemingly favored by Dudley, is that Drake was \\"fostered\\" into the home of a prosperous relative, William Hawkins of Plymouth. Here, Drake would have similarly gained considerable practical knowledge of seamanship while aboard the family's several 50-ton vessels, while also continuing a formal education in the mathematical and navigational skills. Also, here is where the young Drake likely acquired his familiarity with the international diplomatic scene as well as the political savvy to hold his own among haughty gentry. The Hawkins family privateering tradition also imbued Drake with this entrepreneurial and self-directed attitude towards armed adventures. Plus he gained valuable experience in the tricky three-way slaves for gold and produce trade, England-African West Coast- Spanish Caribbean, that danced the fine line between sticking it to the Spaniards and overkill which would get Elizabeth in hot water over her \\"plausible deniability\\" sponsorship. Here, in a few close-run escapades, Drake learned the value of Protestant allies and how being charitable to Catholic prisoners and victims could also reap benefits. Plus he acquired his outstanding proficiency in seamanship, both in uncharted shoals and in the vast deep blue, and how to stomach dire adversity with a clear head and cool nerves.  The treacherous Spanish attack at San Juan de Ulua, off the coast of Mexico led to some vague charge that Drake deserted the expedition, but his reputation for excellent seamanship was affirmed despite the financial losses. Most importantly, it spurred him to seek revenge on the haughty overbearing Catholic rulers of Spain.     Chapter 3, To the Spanish Main and Beyond (pp. 29-47)continues the saga of the imperfectly \\"sponsored\\" freebooting raids on Spanish maritime treasure and communications. It provides a handy summary of Drake's circumnavigation -- a covert operation that forever cemented his place (and that of his diminutive galleon the Golden Hind) in history. Drake's summary trial and execution of a dissident captain, the courtier Thomas Doughty, is handled deftly. Interestingly, Dudley suggests that this incident underlies Drake's shipboard piety, as a guilty conscience plagued him.    Chapter 4, the War of the Armada (pp 49-71)j is a very good summary of the Armada campaign and Drake's role. Dudley's criticism of Drake's apparent insubordination in failing to keep formation has to be seen in light of the epoch's rather lax concept of \\"command and control\\" and discipline among adventurous and independent-minded sea rovers.     Chapter 5, The Final Raids (pp. 73-83)shows Drake's waning powers of judgment and self-confidence.     Chapter 6, Who Was Francis Drake (pp 85-89) neatly reviews the controversies and possible explanations for Drake's checkered career as an adventurer, commander, local politician and mid-level aristocrat who was never accepted by the \\"landed gentry\\" who haunted the court of Elizabeth I at a time when her power abroad depended on the likes of Hawkins, Drake, et. al. -- men who were fanatically loyal to Queen Bess's England but who would not brook any interference from petty politicians, or a Queen's conservatism inspired by their court intrigues.	2005-09-08
US	53089819	R3NZZA08QFN7JK	0802713203	650637800	Phantom Islands of the Atlantic: The Legends of Seven Lands That Never Were	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Geographical Myths Debunked	This is more for the map and exploration buff than those who like ancient sea lore for its own sake. So if Atlantis, Lemuria, Mu and the fabled kingdom of El Dorado are your fare, this is not the book for you. It is a quite scientific and literal, rather than literary, tour of some Atlantic landfalls that were mis-labelled and badly charted, and how later expeditions relocated, redefined and eventually eliminated the fabled islands. There is more navigation than imagination, but then, the author is a small boat sailor and who can fault him for preferring accurate atlases to tall tales? The phantom islands, as explained by this seafaring scholar, have a hold upon the imagination of those who long for some lost paradise, only awaiting re-discovery. But they can be relegated to the realm of hallucination or<br />geographical confusion, unless one holds onto the belief as a kind of quixotic quest.	2005-03-03
US	53089819	RQ1JL5WIPZ0DI	0199271860	416552350	Boats of the World: From the Stone Age to Medieval Times	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Great reference on maritime antiquity	The book is essentially an encyclopedia rather than a narrative history of the evolution of seafaring. So there is a modular format, meaning synoptical outline where ship types have sub-paragraphs on all the variations in a certain regional grouping. The advantage is that there is a heck of a lot of detail, especially the tecnhiques of nautical architecture, plus one can easily compare each type across a variety of ethnic groups. The downside is that the book is kind of choppy, and there is inevitable repetition. All in all, I value this book as a very comprehensive compendium of the latest archaelogical research into ancient maritime technology. Not exactly fireside reading, it is best used as a reference, keying on topics in the index or detailed table of contents.  <br />The illustrations are excellent...detailed, clear  drawings, instead of the usual overused photos of debris strewn on seabeds or indecipherable collections of driftwood.  <br />I find something new each time I pick this heavy book up.  <br /> <br />	2004-10-07
US	53089819	RRFARO5MQO99O	1410210219	444198877	The Protocols of the Meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion with Preface and Explanatory Notes	Books	3	22	48	N	N	Exhibit A  on the racism that still plagues the 21st century	Amazon was right not to bar the book from its inventory and responsible to caveat its decision. Sadly, some readers will ignore the warning(and the critical notes/preface) and take delight in a \\"corroboration\\" of a Jewish conspiracy. It is a case study on anti-Judaic paranoia and the prototype for all the vitriolic bile one may still hear, of all places, in the august halls of the United Nations.     Those who will believe this  screed are already predisposed to believe the worst about Jews and simply want this  to be circulated among those who are somewhat naive to put it mildly, or perhaps only want to feed their irrational hatred with authoritative sounding documentation.     The Protocols have been reprinted many times with glowing modern prefaces by such and such an authority who claims to have independently checked out its outlandish premise.     I first read this book as an appendix to A Warrant for Genocide  which put the book in its proper context. From the editorial material quoted by Amazon, this edition does the same with its  notes and other critical apparautus.     Have we come far enough along from the day when Henry Ford passed the Protocols off as authentic? I only wish this were so. Unfortunately one can still buy editions of this book  published in Damascus, Cairo, Beirut and Baghdad that tout it as the unvarnished truth.     Whatever one may think about Zionism or the situation in the Middle East, this book's premise should have long ago been  eliminated from that issue.     I wish that I didn't have to \\"rate\\" the book as the rating system is not really applicable. However, as a critical edition, the book is recommended to those having some background in the subject, or as a casebook in college level courses on modern racism and propoganda.     Postscript March 31, 2005. I had originally thought that this edition (which I have not read) was truly a \\"critical\\" edition. By this I mean that it gave a true perspective. I see now that the notes and forewords are simply written by anti-Semites of various stripes who endorse and embellish the message. Nonetheless, I don't believe that the way to combat this screed is to lobby against book dealers that stock it. This is counter-productive since ...as some of the other reviews here show...the true believers love to complain about \\"Censorship\\" by \\"the all-powerful Jewish lobby\\"  and almost crave it. If my local library were to carry this edition on its shelves classified under religion or Jews, History of, I would only ask that they afix a label pointing out that this book is hate literature lest some  unsuspecting high school student use it as a reference.	2004-09-24
US	53089819	R3FCGLP89813F6	9997407067	926956382	Josephus	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Incredible that this trilogy should be out of print!	The epoch chronicled by Joseph ben Matthias, former priest of the High Temple in Jerusalem, military commander (of sorts) in Galilee against the opening Roman onslaught and historian of that war, is an extremely significant crossroads of civilization and religion.     Josephus was a champion of his maligned people in the waning years of his life. His life and works were shunned by his beloved Jews as he was considered an arch-traitor who became a Roman lackey. That his works were preserved was only due to  the dligence of certain Christian prelates in the early Church, who (after tampering with some revered passages) found in Josephus a witness to the life and resurrection of Christ outside the Gospels. What a marvelous subject for a novel. Lion Feuchtwanger rose to the occasion. His characters are not the antiseptic saints or the demons of Lew Wallace's Ben Hur, but  conflicted, vacillating and at times just plain goofy people who almost accidentally were placed center stage in one of history's most crucial turning points.     Is F's history a little fudged? Well certainly, but his own essay on the historical novel makes it clear that he is  a \\"political message\\" writer who takes liberties here and there to make his tale relevant. When he wrote, Jews throughtout the diaspora wrestled with the notion of Zionism... reestablishment of a Jewish polity on ancient ground. The countervailing movement was that Jews had to become \\"world citizens\\", contributing to civilization in the countries of their birth, even as rising fascism and antiSemitism closed in upon them.    So Josephus' famed Antiquities is given a bit of a spin to conform with Feuchtwanger's Germany and the Palestine under the British Mandate. To the purist, distortions such as having  the aristocratic priest Josephus be an early advocate of a Zealot faction called the Makkabees might be a bit jarring.  Was Queen Berenice a Jewish patriot in her own way? Well it's possible, and the real Josephus may have wanted to mute this  characterization, as the Jews in Rome were under suspicion and censure under Domitian. Did Nero's consort, Poppaea Sabina  flirt coquettishly with Josephus while testing his knowledge of Jewish aspirations in Judaea and the world? Why not? We know she showered Josephus with gifts and that she was sympathetic  to the Jews's situation....though not a very saintly person in her personal affairs to put it mildly.    Reading these works, one can only wonder why they were never brought to the screen, let alone allowed to go out of print.	2004-02-08
US	53089819	R2KL7KZFRZB4KZ	0195056671	234594992	The Influence of Sea Power on Ancient History	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Handy reference though the thesis is bogus	The late Chester Starr has written some well-regarded books on ancient empires and his study on the anatomy of the roman imperial navy is the standard reference. He, or Oxford U Press,<br />probably decided to issue this potboiler in order to exploit the 100th anniversary of the Mahan's &quot;The Influence of Seapower on History.&quot;<br />The book could have stood on its own merits as a handy little summary of the naval side of ancient empire-building, defending and destroying. However it certainly does NOT prove that seapower is overrated as a factor. Nor did Mahan -- Starr's supposed target-- really make any such claims with respect to antiquity. Mahan's brief paragraphs on Athens (in his lecture notes) and the Second Punic War (in his Influence of Seapower book) were not only peripheral but were rather cautious compared to his claims for seapower's role in building the British Empire -- his main topic.<br />In fact, Starr's narrative and discussions are pretty supportive of the SIGNIFICANCE of naval and maritime dominance in ancient times. The most forceful, and practically only, argument he makes<br />to debunk naval power is with reference to the Minoans. What's the point? Mahan never mentioned Crete or Minos at all.<br />In the jacket blurb, Oxford U Press and Barnes &amp; Noble mention that Mahan's disciples inflate the maritime factor with regard to antiquity. If so, Starr never mentions who these disciples are or their works, let alone refute them.<br />All in all, this is a concise and informative reference on the use of ships before the medieval period. Its shaky hypothesis offers nothing new and in fact, devalues the book's true worth.	2003-09-24
US	53089819	R2FDOJIEMD4Q89	0714682543	42499301	The Royal Navy and the Palestine Patrol (Naval Staff Histories)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Fascinating perspective on the Jewish refugee problem	This book is an expanded and largely revised version of a restricted circulation internal staff review prepared for the instruction of British naval officers in 1947. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary, it was decided to have a new edition prepared for the benefit of the general public. The author/editor<BR>benefitted from attending a reunion in Israel of former illegal immigrant ship commanders. Most people are familiar with the<BR>popular Leon Uris novel EXODUS -- and the movie version.  This book provides an in-depth look at the command and practical difficulties faced by the villains of the fictional account. <BR>Regardless of what one might think about the British White Paper<BR>of 1939, which had the effect of severely curtailing Jewish immigration to Palestine just as the European Holocaust got underway, one can appreciate how the Navy had no recourse but<BR>to comply with the policy set by Whitehall for their own reasons of state. That they did so humanely and with the minimum of <BR>force commensurate with the plight of the refugees they intercepted comes through in this study. Beyond the issues of interest to students of Israeli history, the book covers the<BR>dilemmas of conducting coastal anti-smuggling blockade using ships and doctrines designed for open-ocean warfare.<br />A found a few references, such as comparing Irgun methods to<BR>those employed by the Nazis against Jewish victims, a bit jarring and overdone. But on the whole, this book is a welcome<BR>and refreshing revelation on how the Royal Navy professionalism<BR>coped with a thankless task for which they had been ill-prepared.	2003-08-31
US	53089819	R33AW8YLADFJJQ	0025471619	336923974	Flavius Josephus: Eyewitness to Rome's First-Century Conquest of Judaea	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Good Starting Place for researching the Jewish Revolt	I concur with the previous reviewer's disappointment over the lack of summarizing appendices. I found Professor Hadas-Lebel's<BR>account quite adequate, even stimulating as an introductory text on the twin research controversies over Josephus and the revolt to which Josephus is virtually the sole eyewitness/contemporary account (unless one counts the tantalizing fragments of Tacitus). I wish that the author had included a bibliography or a discussion of the conflicting modern academic or religious studies. Nonetheless, this book is both a good summary of the debate and a solid introcution to Josephus, the events he desribes and his predicament in the context of a hostile world. Particularly valuable is Hadas-Lebel's review of Josephus' legacy in art, music, literature and judicial polemics -- mock courts-martial and the like. I am pleased to see this book available again in paperback. I ordered expecting that some of the above defects would have been remedied. I hope that English-speakers might soon find translations of some of the author's other more recent work on the Jewish Revolt.	2003-08-31
US	53089819	R2ACHJZ5QT8NPM	0198662092	820353642	The Oxford Companion to Military History	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	A Marvel of Compression	I just received this book, and have skimmed to locate items in my particular field of interest -- I am a military historian for fun and (very little) profit. <br />As I peruse favorite topics, I find it quite impressive. It's pretty comprehensive considering it has to include some trendy topics such as gender and war, as well as more traditional subjects such as battles, campaigns &amp; leaders. There are a number of surprisingly complete and helpful articles on more obscure battles (most run about 300-600 words) and good overviews on campaigns and wars. The length of each essay, or blurb seems appopriate to the complexity or importance of the particular topic. <br />Comparisons with other compendia are appropriate. Brassey's published a two-volume encyclopedia of military knowledge in the mid-90s, each containing about 1200 pages, the first covering biography and history, the second military theory, concepts and weapons systems. The Trevor Dupuy &quot;Encyclopedia of Military History&quot;, whose fourth edition appeared in 1993, is set up in a chronological and geographical scheme and runs over 1600 pages.  At 1048 pages the Oxford Companion embraces the themes contained in all those volumes plus sociological matters, literature, journalism, humor, and pop cultural topics. <br /> An impressive group of contributors, all prominent in their specialties, provide ample information both for the novice and the professional wishing to jog his or her memory. Sidebar treatments (some running several pages) on Artillery, armored warfare, airpower, seapower,uniforms, rank and insignia, signals, etc. are very handy reviews of these topics. <br />I have a few quibbles with the suggestions for further reading. Perhaps some out of print classics focusing narrowly on their subject might have been more appropriate than the suggested recent books that covered the person, battle or campaign as a minor part of a general history; but this is a very minor drawback. <br />Thhis is a veryhandy reference indeed, and most importantly, a pleasure to browse.	2001-09-30
US	53089819	R1VS5RWLG19JFU	1585742406	774717286	The Grey Seas Under: The Perilous Rescue Mission of a N.A. Salvage Tug	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Intrepid Rescue under Apalling Adversity, Unrewarded Heroism	Perhaps some of the tales are embellished by a seaman's blurred memory of hair's-breadth escapes from watery tombs. Nonetheless, one can't help but be awestruck by the stoic  inexhaustible courage and stamina of the &quot;Newfie&quot; sailors, who merit their reputation as the world's finest seamen even if the truth may be varnished a bit. Mowat's understated yet always interesting style gives no cause for skepticism. The economics and frustrating legalisms of salvage are conveyed with no less clarity than the heroics. But these men are not heroes in any sense that we might readily understand. At least a Shackleton or  a Tensing performs their valorous deeds with some hope of glory. The indefatigable crewmen got meager financial reward, even during the few instances where the salvage claims were paid in full and the ledgers stood in the black. Their wartime work was considerably more dangerous than the duly celebrated Canadian, British and American merchantmen and navy...the miniscule salvage tug Foundation Franklin was more often than not denied the customary warship escort when operating in U-Boat infested waters, when panicked radiomen on board the doomed vessels broke radio silence and practically served as beacons to draw the German wolfpacks to would-be rescuer and rescued alike.  The several skippers of the Franklin demonstrated great ingenuity under duress when faced with what would seem to be certain failure in snow-blown gales, blindly groping their way among reef-studded shallows to persevere with what might seem insane stubbornness, even recklessness. Mowat knows and loves ships, their men and he respects the awesome destructive power of storm driven water. Delightful and informative reading.	2001-08-18
US	53089819	RRFNM03VCHAVL	1853674524	218662226	The War of Independence : The British Army in North America 1775-1783	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	John Bull History of the AWI:a little bull a lot of history	I had always wondered why some enterprising publisher didn't excise the irrelevant material from Volume III of Fortescue's monumental history of the British Army and produce an all American War of Independence volume. I have just ordered the Greenhill edition but have read the original from the multi-volume set. Presumably, John Shy's introduction will provide enough perspective to take the edge off of Fortescue's rankling (to 21st century ears) chest-thumping Victorian imperialist harangue. However, to anyone who winced at the &quot;Patriot's&quot; demonizing of Tarleton (somewhat overdone) and the &quot;Bloodyback&quot; regulars ( a lot overdone), this view from &quot;the other side of the hill&quot; is refreshing. Readers of Higginbottam, John Shy and a hostof other recent sociologically oriented AWI studies may find this as a throwback to the so-called &quot;drum and trumpet&quot; war history, where the strategies and tactics were discussed with little reference to the societies that produced them. Personally, I welcome the return to the nuts and bolts of military operations. Fortescue is no admirer of the American mobocracy, as he makes clear. For example, his description of the viciousness of the ungrateful crowds of colonists as they  hurled insult and injury upon the heads of the poor redcoated troops trying to protect them from themselves will be all too familiar to those who read the late 1960s propaganda pieces supporting the US role in Vietnam. It is fascinating to read  about the various Kent-state type crowd control episodes and the Boston Tea Party, etc. in that light. On the other hand, given Fortescue's prejudices, it makes his reluctant praise of such episodes as Washington at Trenton and the Saratoga and Yorktown campaigns all the more gratifying to the American reader. He does cast much of the blame on the inefficiency and greed of John Bull's erstwhile native allies, the Loyalists.  Likewise the vacillating British foreign policy (that blundering St. Germaine!) is considered to have sold out the valiantly performing British troops. All in all, this is a welcome reprint of Fortescue's take on the American victory of 1781...especially since the full set from which this volume is extracted was only reprinted once, in the 1970s by AMS and the reprint volumes are going almost for as much as the originals from the dawn of the 20th century.	2001-07-11
US	53089819	R1N89MZDX3L998	0968270220	276355227	Women in War and Resistance: Selected Biographies of Soviet Women Soldiers	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Eye-Opener! Fascinating tales of heroism	As the author points out in her introduction, contrary to persistent myth, the women in the USSR were NOT privileged nor offered traditionally masculine employment opportunities on a golden platter. They were certainly not welcome in the military. The sacrifices and feats of these women figher pilots, tankers,  snipers, naval commandoes, spies, and medical personnel are all the more impressive. K.J. Cottam presents these hero tales  without the gloss of the familiar Soviet propaganda. She has consulted diaries, combat reports where available, military histories and conducted many interviews with survivors and their families. <br />I was attracted to this title because of my interest in the Russo-German war. I wanted to read about the contributions of women and was wary of the usual Soviet ballyhoo about their valorous decorated women and how the Soviet system inspired and rewarded their dedication. True, many of the women described in these pages were dedicated, as was inevitable under the Hammer and Sickle (and in the face of German brutality). However this book makes clear that  their impressive and tragic sacrifices were on behalf their families and to prove their value to their homeland. They were dedicated professionals, not crusaders.<br />I was not disappointed. A fascinating, relatively unknown and important story, well told. I commend Dr. Cottam for presenting this excellent cross-section of Russian women at war.	2001-06-22
US	53089819	R29KHF7CWB6ATQ	0140267255	971843216	The Eastern Front 1914-1917	Books	4	43	44	N	Y	Still THE book on WWI's neglected Eastern Front	It's hard to believe that after over a quarter of a century,  Stone's book remains the sole &quot;big picture&quot; reference on the Russian end of WWI. Showalter's Tannenberg concentrates on that campaign and few, if any, authors have ventured to say much new about the mobile war far to the east of the Franco-Belgian trench lines. Stone did not take  the opportunity to update his classic for this Penguin re-issue. The book's structure could be more rigorous, as it tends to be a bit fragmented. However, Stone's analysis is penetrating. He doesn't simply hop from battle to battle but provides good coverage of economic and industrial factors underlying the campaigns. Thus, this book is still well worth consulting. It looks as though Hew Strachan's new three-volume treatment of the War will pay more attention to the  East, but the first volume only runs to the end of 1914 and it may be some time before we see the succeeding entries. <br />For the price, Stone provides plenty of data, backed by solid footnotes (though he didn't have access to ex-Soviet archives now available).	2001-06-06
US	53089819	REPK1J0ORIW61	185367446X	999618445	Rising Sun Victorious	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A &quot;What if?&quot; that informs as well as entertains	The field of &quot;counterfactual&quot; history or Alternate History is divided into fictional accounts, written up as novels, and pseudo documentaries, written up as history books might be  done in the alternate future caused by the changed events.<br />The more challenging task is the latter because in fiction one can mix fact and fantasy without having to explain the choices... after all, it's a novel. However the essay format requires some hard thinking and deep research, because even a fake history has to be footnoted. <br />This counterfactual collection of essays on might-have-been wars in the Pacific does not disappoint. Many of the entries utilize fake references which are supposedly written in that rearranged future. The fake notes are distinguished from the real by an asterisk. It's a measure of the verisimilitude of the accounts that many of these fake references could be accepted as real, though some, such as court martials of Douglas MacArthur and victorious Japanese generals' memoirs are more self-evident.<br />Just because these alternate histories are cast as essays does not mean they are colorless didactic prose. The reading is lively and provocative, just as good military history should be. <br />Some discussions with a few of the contributors at a book signing convinced me that these authors had considered most of the pitfalls of their thesis in advance. This book is not simply another variant of that old Saturday Night Live gag about  a television show that answers adolescent inquiries such as &quot;what if Napoleon had B-52s at Waterloo&quot; or &quot;What if Margaret Truman could fly&quot; (she lead a wing of B-24s in a raid over Germany). <br />None of these conjectural essays depend on &quot;magic&quot;....such as  wonder weapons concocted from thin air, or giving allies or axis forces that could not have been possibly available. Nor are there dramatic personality changes. The key commanders and political  leaders all stay &quot;in character&quot; reacting to each changed situation as one might expect.<br />This book broadens horizons and, miracle of miracles, finds something new to say about WW II.<br />Highly recommended.	2001-06-06
US	53089819	RCY65K3V63QLI	1574091077	375049351	Liners to the Sun	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Next Best Thing to Booking a Berth on These Seagoing Cities	I had been enticed by the hardcover edition at the library and was hoping this softcover brought it up to date from 1985...but the only addenda from 2000 were confined to the new preface. Hence four instead of five stars. That said, this book is truly a celebration of the ultimate seagoing experience ( unless you are a dedicated small boat windsailor). Maxtone-Graham KNOWS and LOVES his ships-- down to the details of welding and design--  their captains and crew, their passengers and their milieux, and the sheer exuberance of unwinding, relaxing, shmoozing, partying or simply vegging on an ocean-going palace. The author's wonderfully cosmopolitan outlook and elegance of expression match the glitz, glamor --- and sometimes grit-- of the wonderful vessels he describes with such evocative precision. He is at home among the hoi polloi, but definitely no effete snob. When addressing the delicate issue of Class versus Crass (yesteryear's sophisticated passenger contrasted to today's alleged boor) the author wisely points out that the Old Guard elite also had their share of back-slapping, spittle shpritzing louts aboard. Those who mourn the passing of Great Liner gentility have forgotten about these annoying ship crawlers. Maxtone-Graham does make distinctions between the most garish of the party-hardy Spring Break specials and the classier cruise ships. He does not neglect the luxurious smaller vessels as so many cruise ship writers do. For example the always interesting Arnold Kludas won't consider any ship under 10,000 gross tons in his multi-volumed compendium. Maxtone-Graham gives a vivid and affectionate review of an Atlantic crossing on one of the first of the modern Mega-Yachts, the 4,250 ton Sea Goddess I (now operated by Seabourn with its sister ship). I particularly enjoyed the lively accounts of the memorable, and gone-forever,grand tours such as the 1938-39 lavish and fun-filled Normandie cruises to Rio and many other such &quot;journeys to nowhere&quot;.  I did not find the excellent depiction of the down and dirty details of design and construction at all boring, as the author feared. Equally informative is the insight into the economic realities confronting the cruise travel industry as it enters the twenty-first century. Details such as cabin and bathroom design are brought to life by demonstrating the relative comfort and convenience factors of different arrangements. I have never tired of re-reading this wonderfully evocative book. Having missed the author's The Only Way to Cross, the appendix relating some letters he received about the earlier book was a welcome bonus. The illustrations....deck plans, interior and exterior photos and drawings, are quite helpful in visualizing life and luxury aboard. Highly recommended both for bon voyagers and those who would rather read about life at sea from a dry and steady berth.	2000-10-30
US	53089819	RCH9SHZQ1NUUS	1853266930	461151480	The Frigates: An Account of the Lesser Warships of the Wars from 1793 to 1815 (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Vivid Accounts of Inspiring Bravery Under Sail	First of all, Mr. Henderson is an experienced &quot;canvas&quot; sailor. He shows this in every word, and even provides some examples of seamanship  from his own background to bolster his tales. Each chapter illustrates some  aspect of the character of these independent world cruising hunter-killers.  The frigate captains were the functional equivalent of the submarine or  surface commerce-raiding helions of the First and Second World Wars.  Frigates were not quite powerful enough...in weight of shot per  broadside...to join in with the &quot;line of battle ships&quot; in the  great fleet-to-fleet contests. Nonetheless their firepower and speed made  them superior to most of the vessels they might encounter along the  far-flung mercantile trade routes. Because of the poor communications with  the commodore to whom they were nominally responsible, let alone the  Admiralty, the British frigate captains were pretty much on their own,  sailing under general orders they might interpret as circumstances  permitted.  Just like Francis Drake and the raiders of Elizabeth I's time,  these men took their vessels into the midst of formidabbly escorted  convoys, fortified and heavily gunned harbors, and even chanced encounters  with lone warships carrying almost double their cannon. There are a few  negative examples of frigates commanded by spoiled heirs promoted solely  due to social connections and those commanded by men who despised their  crews, often comprised of desperate gamblers and paroled debtors. However  these examples stand out as lonely exceptions. It is hard to realize that  many of the shrewd adventurers populating these lively pages are barely  into their twenties. One clearly sees the apprenticeship and development of  future Nelsons and Cochranes. The chapters are short and to the point. The  actions are supported by maps, some at tactical level, as well as  contemporary woodcuts and paintings illustrating a number of the actions.  To give you an idea of thedesperate tactics of these  swashbucklers, there  are three or four episodes in which the attacking frigate crew finishes  their journey as the crew of the  conquered vessel, their own ship having  been sunk or disabled. The sail and rigging plan of a typical frigate at  the front of the book is quite helpful, as is the glossary. There is no  bibliography or footnotes, but so authoritatively does the author write, it  is as if he had taken part in these sea chases himself.<br />This is the  real-life story of Hornblower, Aubrey and Maturin.	2000-08-30
US	53089819	R80NULO5VQIXC	042517607X	63200195	Storm Warning	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Great Sea Story with Plausible Characters.	As a fan of naval adventure fiction, I usually follow the Forester, Obrian, Kent novels of nautical derring-do in the Age of Sail. Thus the  jacket blurb on this Higgins book attracted me. I was not disappointed.  Briefly, the book involves the fates of passengers and crew of a 19th  century three-masted barkentine as it tries to return German nationals from  Brazil to the homeland as Germany faces certain defeat. It's a  five-thousand mile journey to round the Shetlands to enter the Skageraak  and head for home. The Atlantic is controlled by the British and American  fleets. This danger, however, is not the main enemy, which is the sea and  the weather. The amazing seamanship exercised just to hold the creaking  60-year old vessel together in the teeth of terrible storms may stretch  credulity; however the nautical exploits are convincingly described and  it's obvious that Higgins knows his naval details down to the way in which  sails had to be reefed, masts lashed, hulls braced, etc. The passengers  include an admirable collection of nuns who must abandon the order in  Brazil due to the fact that Brazil has just become a formal ally of the  United Nations effort to defeat the Nazi regime. The stifled romance  between a wavering novitiate nun and a strongly etched member of the ship's  crew is well drawn, not too maudlin and deftly handled. So too are the  British and American characters on a remote island in the Hebrides, who are  to become entangled in the fate of the imperiled _Deutschland_. Even the  captured U-Boat commander Gericke avoids the usual black and white  &quot;German = Nazi&quot; stereotyping.<br />I would have liked to see the  subsequent fate of the surviving main characters brought to light. Any  screenplay based on this novel (which is a natural for the cinema) should  try to tie up these loose ends. <br />Highly recommended.	2000-08-08
US	53089819	R106R2OPHO1A2A	0684833093	531000691	Lees Lieutenants (3 Volumes In One Abridged) : A Study in Command	Books	4	18	22	N	N	An exhilirating, if partisan, account still worth reading	Douglas Freeman leaves no doubt that his heart lies with the doomed Southern cause. Yet he does not on that account engage in blind worship of poor generalship. Of course this is the war as seen through the experiences  of the Army of Northern Viriginia, as the title clearly asserts. It is more  than that, it is one of the pioneering works that tries to take the reader  into the minds of the various commanders by presenting only that  information which was available to them at the time. This avoids the type  of hind-sighting that armchair strategists can indulge in the comfort of  their study. <br />Freeman acknowledges some serious shortcomings in the  Confederacy's efforts on the whole. For example, he points out the woeful  lack of formal military education in the junior field-grade officers who  were often placed at the head of a  brigade without any more background  than barracks-rooms tales or childhood games with toy soldiers. Their lack  of foresight with respect to supply and munitions expenditure (the  all-imortant, though &quot;boring&quot; logistical considerations)would  negate the most meticulous plans made with map and pen and  protractor.<br />Freeman finds Lincoln to have been a more astute wartime  Commander in Chief than Jefferson Davis despite the latter's military  background. His complaint that southern officers were often selected more  for their political connections than their military prowess is one that  affected the North equally. <br />Freeman acknowledged as well the tendency of  Lee's subordinates to rush headlong into offensive operations without  considering alternative methods of picking ground so as to force the enemy  to come to them, thereby gaining the advantage of cover and superior  position. This has almost become a commonplace but Freeman's excellent  narrative provides example after example.<br />Most importantly the power of  the writing carries the reader along...this is no dry academic text. This  is, as the subtitle mentions, a &quot;study in command&quot; but one marked  by considerable insights into the physical and psychological limitations of  the chaotic 19th century battlefield, given the primitive nature of  communications  -- telegraph and semaphore notwithstanding. <br />The  abridgement is judiciously accomplished retaining most of the  essence of  the three-volume original. <br />Published in 1942, Lee's Lieutenants, despite  the bulkiness of the original set, was carried overseas by American Army  and Corps commanders for inspirational reading. One Korean war analyst  mentioned that he was apprised after the war that a Chinese general kept a  heavily underlined copy of the translated third volume with him.	2000-07-24
US	53089819	R1L0ITBP2WPPQR	0306808455	888207259	A Bird's-eye View Of Our Civil War	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Though a Century Old, still the best one-volume treatment	Theodore Dodge was one of the most astute military historians and critics of his era, roughly the 1890s through the early 1900s. His books on &quot;The Great Captains&quot; of all ages from Alexander through Napoleon  continue to do well in reprints. <br />As a participant in the Civil War, he  had some insights not available to other scholars. As Dodge's preface  indicates, this book was pitched at high-school level students who wanted  to learn more about the military aspects of the war and who were likely to  be confused by the profusion of self-justifying post war accounts of  pariticipants. But understand that high school level in the 1890s, unlike  today, did not mean you had to feed the kids politically correct and  dumbed-down pap. <br />Dodge manages to give highly analytical yet very  succinct accounts of the campaigns. He does not waste time in challenging  one or the other post-war accounts of this or that action, but gets right  down to describing and analyzing the combat and the leadership. <br />The 6  theater maps and 42 battlefield maps are a good indication of the level of  critical discussion. <br />A glossary of military terms was appended because  his readership was expected to be mostly civilians. However even the  military  service man or woman of today would need this glossary as many of  the terms are antiquated or have different meanings today.<br />This is one  civil war book that has not lost its value despite tens of thousands of  subsequent accounts.	2000-07-24
US	53089819	R1BXA7JRJVR5O3	030680199X	885992101	Yours To Reason Why: Decision In Battle (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Great educational fun: A wargame in text form.	I am glad to see that Da Capo decided to re-print this book in a cheap paperback edition. The author is always interesting and vivid (his review of Battles in Britain, for example). In this case, he takes the reader step  by step through the situation as it unfolded before one of commanders,  presenting information that he would have had at the time. At several  critical points there is a \\"pause\\" to ask the reader to select  one of the options. Immediately after in small print, Seymour explains the  decision actually made and briefly discusses the wisdom of the choice. Then  the narrative continues to a second critical juncture, and so on. Small  tactical maps interspersed in the narrative (there  are 76 in all) are  quite helpful. The 25 plates containing paintings or photos of commanders,  some artwork on the battlefield scenes and a few interesting contemporary  cartoons aren't remarkable, but nicely complement the text. There are good  orders of battle for each campaign selected and a very well chosen  bibliography, arranged to match the respective battles. The selections of  battles for the most part are the usual  (see Creasy's 1851 classic)  \\"decisive\\" encounters seen in other battle books: Hastings,Crecy,  Agincourt, Cromwell in the Third (English) Civil War, Saratoga, Waterloo,  Chancellorsville, and Gettysburg. The twentieth century battles might seem  to deviate from this pattern a bit. Gaza/Palestine 1917 (instead of  Passchendaele, Gallipoli, Verdun, Somme) and Anzio (instead of Britain,  Barbarossa, Stalingrad, etc. for WWII). However the WWI and WWII selections  are justified by the treatment in the narrative.     This is the way, in my  humble opinion, military history should be taught, and to a large extent  Seymour follows the methodology that has been used by the world's leading  military academies.     Great reading, and terrific brain food. Highly  recommended.	2000-07-23
US	53089819	R34YWME1CZA0LC	0452010047	768284993	Battles and Leaders of the Civil War	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Most Readable Primary Source for the American Civil War	This compendium of battle studies and reports was written by  commanders of all levels: Grant, Sherman, Lee and Longstreet down to lieutenants commanding companies for points of clarification on minor skirmishes or  segments of the battlefield.The accounts were set down when the war was  still fresh in their memories, yet when enough time had passed for  reflection.<br />The fact that several viewpoints, some conflicting, are given  for each major battle and campaign adds immeasurably to the value of this  work. Of course recent &quot;scholarship&quot; has eclipsed and corrected  many of these accounts. However, you get the immediacy and vigor of the  post-war controversies and the finger-pointing --- the first early  exposition of the rift between Longstreet and the Jubal Early faction for  example.<br />Battles and Leaders was for a long time THE source for the  early critical historians of the war such as John Codman Ropes, W.  Henderson (the pre-eminent biographer of Stonewall Jackson) as well as the  generals themselves who wanted to cross-check their accounts. This was the  case until well after the release of the Offical Records some ten years  later.<br />There were inevitable lapses of style and critical ability in the  original multi-volume edition; these for the most part have been weeded out  from this accessible one-volume version.<br />The great part about this book  for me is that one can get the flavor of the passions still raging, even  though the writers attempted a detached and clinical tone for credibility's  sake.<br />Johnson and Buell made a concerted effort to elicit a well-rounded  picture for battles and episodes which were the subject of intense debate.<br />If you have any interest in the Civil War, and lack the time to sift  through the voluminous post-war memoirs of the commanders, you'll want to  keep Battles and Leaders handy.	2000-07-23
US	53089819	R3O3RIB2B6TION	0262024780	593645112	The Middle East Military Balance 1999-2000 (BCSIA Studies in International Security)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Superior but not up to the standard of its predecessors	This valuable balance of forces compendium had been missing in action for a few years. Prepared as always under the auspices of the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies in Tel Aviv, this respected annual has been published irregularly over the past 10 years resulting in some overlap, chronological  lapses in  coverage and staleness of data. Nonetheless the appearance of  MEMB has always been worth the wait. The previous edition covered only  through 1998 and the manuscript-to-press time frame effectively rendered it  the 1997 yearbook. <br />I was very pleased to find this reference once again  available, this time from MIT Press and at a much more reasonable price  than earlier editions, which were bordering in the $100 range. <br />The meat  of the book is the 330+ pages of tables showing country-by-country  inventories. This, as before, is quite detailed and I believe that the  background of the editors inspires trust that this data is in fact accurate  as of late 1999 as is claimed in the preface.  After leafing through the  133 pages of Qualitative anlaysis -- the first part of the book, I was just  a tad disappointed. The writing is incisive as always, however the earlier  editions (besides having maps, not in the current version) gave more  emphasis on what you might call the socio-economic/political context, to  coin a jawbusting Poli-Sci phrase. I didn't find enough discussion of  internal politics and international diplomacy including the role of the US  and the other power-brokers. After all, a significant role in the power  balance is played by the reliability of outside arms suppliers and the  diplomatic restraints on the arms trade.  <br />The introductory essay lays  out some trends in a general way, but the chapter on the Balance of Land  Forces comes closest to the usefulness of the earlier editions. I say that  because the author tries to show a dynamic balance by setting up scenarios.  Of course scenarios can get dated very quickly in the Middle East (witness  the sudden Israeli pullout from Lebanon and the death of Assad). However  the main idea of the qualitative essays should be (and used to be) to flesh  out the book's bean-counting inventories by matching up the various users  of these inventories in likely settings. Even in the land forces chapter,  some of the earlier discussions of &quot;things that can go wrong&quot; is  missing. <br />The chapter on the Balance of Air Power seems meaty enough, but  the qualitative analysi is based on formulas not quite well explained  enough for this reader. I can crunch numbers reasonably well but need a bit  more explaining than is provided in the few paragraphs devoted to  discussing the derivation of the formula. The narrative does fill in some  gaps, but I am not certain how these assertions are backed up, since, as I  said, I couldn't quite follow the methodology. The editor suggests that in  future editions the authors will extend the formula or equation approach  used for Air Forces to the land, sea and strategic missile elements as  well. If so, I'd suggest that the narrative concentrate on explaining the  meaning while the derivation of the formula be confined to a brief appendix  or long footnote. As is, I was left a bit confused. However, it's obvious  that the author has some relevant and weighty things to say about the  machine-man interface. <br />The Naval essay handles the building and  acquisition programs nicely and gives a good overview of the reasons behind  the respective ship/weapons package choices of each regional power.  However, I wish the author had worked out some scenarios so that the text  would go beyond plain &quot;mission statements&quot; and get down to the  likely match-ups and flashpoints. <br />The defense spending trends chapter  does a good job of relating defense spending to the economic situations  confronting each actor and the trade-offs that had to be made. However, a  bit more social and domestic political background would have helped here.  It's important to consider who controls the purse strings, why and what  internal party conflicts drive spending patterns.<br />The final assessment  chapter is an interesting survey of the role of the &quot;Afganistan  Alumni&quot; in terorrist activities in the region and beyond. This chapter  is very useful, given the recent headlines over the various embassy,  barracks and industrial bombings. <br />A chapter on the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process would have been helpful given the centrality of this issue to  a lot else going on in the central theater of the Middle East ( the Western  theater being the North African countries and the Eastern theater the Gulf  States.<br />All-in-all a creditable job, despite my cavils,  and certainly  worth the ( ) for anyone having an interest in war-making and  peacekeeping in what is still the world's most dangerous tinderbox.	2000-06-19
US	53089819	REM68J50VXUDZ	0304352659	594227282	Roman Warfare (Cassell's History of Warfare)	Books	5	136	137	N	Y	Great Intro and Overview of the Roman Art of War	This book is not the definitive history of Rome's wars, but a well-constructed survey of how it prepared, equipped, manned and made war, using selected illustrative examples from each stage of development over  the thousand-year period.<br />Goldsworthy sets his task as tracing the  development of warfare within the context of the evolution of the army and  state: the nature of the army, why and with what objectives if fought a  war, and the way in which it operated, taking into consideration the  military institutions of the main enemies in each era. Matters such as  arms,armor and equipment are handled succinctly by use of drawings and  diagrams, which are especially good at depicting battle tactics for the  major encounters. The positions of troops are shown as if from an aerial  view rather than the bare schematic bars and squares usually  shown.<br />Despite being touted as a general, introductory text, there is  plenty to keep the  knowledgeable reader interested as well. I found new  insights in every chapter, which follow a chronological rather than topical  arrangement.<br />Being pitched at the general reader, as is required by  Cassell's _History of Warfare_ series, the book is heavily illustrated.  This has its good and bad features. Mostly, the illustration are taken from  columns, gravemarkers, monuments and ruins of forts. They are usually  provided with detailed captions to explain the significance of the features  shown therein. My only complaint is that some of the pictures occupy a  full-page or two-page spread where a smaller image would have sufficed. I  expect this is due to the publisher's required text-to-illustration  ratio.<br />Here is an example of Goldsworthy's exposition, taken from his  section on Caesar in Gaul. After a brief excerpt from Julius Caesar's  _Bellum Gallicum_, describing the battle at Sambre in 57 BC, Goldsworthy  remarks:<br />&quot;It is worth noting that Caesar, although he had moved into  the front line, does not bother to tell us whether or not he actuallt  fought hand-to-hand. What he does stress is that he exposed himself to  danger in order more effectively to do his job of encouraging the battle  line. The general's job was to lead and control his army, not inspire them  with his personal prowess, like the warrior aristocrats of early Rome or  Alexander the Great who consciously emulated the behavior of Homeric  heroes.&quot;<br />The book is filled with such helpful commentary.<br />Every  epoch (including that of Marcus Aurelius and Commodus, of _Gladiator_ fame)  is depicted, showing how the financial and political policies of the  emperors and senate affected the abilities of the armies to do what was  expected.<br />A detailed chronology, a glossary that actually explains rather  than merely annotates terms, a brief review of the ancient sources for each  chapter, mini biographies of each of the luminaries, and a well thought out  reading list for each chapter all add to the books usefulness.<br />Highly  recommended both as a &quot;first book&quot; for novices and a handy  references for old hands.	2000-05-31
US	53089819	R26ECOUHAH43JS	0700610154	361615757	Inside Hitler's High Command	Books	5	52	56	N	Y	Hitler's Willing Executives: General Disarray and Decline	Within months of Germany's unconditional surrender in May 1945, his former military &quot;advisors&quot; tried to distance themselves from his over-reaching grand strategy. Beginning with Halder's self-exculpatory  _Hitler as Warlord_ in 1949 and continuing through the highly popular  memoirs of Guderian, Manstein, Warlimont, Mellenthin and Bock, the dead  Hitler was put in the docket and found guilty of strategical naivite.  <br />Post-war propaganda depicted a German High Command which &quot;knew  better&quot; than Hitler but were intimidated and brutalized into  submitting, or being replaced and disgraced.<br />This myth has been  unravelling piecemeal of late with respect to certain &quot;fatal  decisions&quot; (Invasion of Russia, Battle of Britain, Declaration of War  on the US, the North African Campaign). However, until Megargee's  well-written study, none have presented a dissection of how the High  Command collectively shared responsibility with the Little Corporal for  confusing phase lines on a planning map with logistical, mechanical and  manpower realities.<br />This is most likely because &quot;organizational  history&quot; tends to be boring. It's much more interesting to read about  behind-the-scenes feuds among monocled martinets than the precise way in  which orders and intelligence were processed and disseminated. Megargee  manages to envigorate his descriptions of the &quot;system&quot;, such as  it was, with  the constant reminder of the clash of egos that  diffused  what little &quot;opposition&quot; there was to Hitler's conceptions.  <br />Throughout it all, Megargee shows how the once powerful vaunted  &quot;General Staff&quot; became a mere cog in the awkward_Army High  Command_(OKH)structure working alongside, but hardly in synch with Hitler's  personal war cabinet, the _Armed Forces High Command_ (OKW). <br />The High  Command at work is the heart of this illuminating expose. The most detailed  case study is that of _Operation Barbarossa_, often described as Hitler's  leap into the dark. <br />Megargee shows how, in spite of the reservations  that many of the senior commanders expressed at the time, they were brought  along by the seeming precision and foresight of detailed operational staff  studies. Megargee illuminates the Wehrmacht's poor use of and regard for  intelligence staffs and their work.<br />Paricularly illuminating is Chapter 8  &quot;The System at Work: A Week in the Life of the High Command&quot;. The  week for display was well chosen: December 15-22, 1941, when the first  signs of Operation Barbarossa's failure SHOULD HAVE become apparent.  The  clear exposition of decision-making and breaking demonstrates exactly how  and why Hitler's &quot;professionals&quot; came to share his delusions.  Throughout, the illusion of controlling the situation hundreds of miles  away by dint of modern instantaneous communications was reinforced by the   misuse of raw information filtering back from the beleaguered field  commands.<br />Megargee's clear exposition and lively prose should dump the  final shovel of dirt on the grave of the lame lament:&quot; If only Hitler  had not interfered, his generals would have won the war&quot;.	2000-05-24
US	53089819	R3LQA1Q30O4HND	0824070291	739790420	World War II in Europe: An Encyclopedia (Military History of the United States) 2 volume set	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Argument-Settler for World War II Buffs (and scholars)	The massive two-volume work will most likely be found only in University and large metropolitan libraries. An occasional military history nut like myself will shell out the better part of $200 for this comprehensive and  well-organized reference work. <br />Does it replace single volume, cheaper  and handier  encyclopedia? I have not seen any notable gaps in coverage  when randomly searching for some relatively obscure events, items or person  be they Rumanian military commanders, Baltic seacoast skirmishes or Polish  tankettes.  However, as the title notes, this work is devoted to the  European Theater(which includes much of the African and Middle Eastern  theaters as well). As such, it is exhaustive.<br />It is organized into  sections dealing with &quot;Social and Political Events&quot;,  &quot;Leaders&quot;, &quot;Units and Organizations&quot;,  &quot;Weapons&quot;, &quot;Strategy, Tactics and Operational concepts  (including doctrine)&quot;, and finally &quot;Battles and Campaigns&quot;.  Each article is written by someone who obviously knows his or her material.  Suggested reading lists immediately follow  each entry, which vary from a  paragraph or two to several pages. This aspect is uneven. Some lists  suggest outdated and curious wartime items, others include dubious popular  accounts or works that mention the subject only incidentally. However,  enough substantial and authoritative works are included to provide adequate  additional depth for the most part. The general bibliography at the end  supplements the mini-list nicely.<br />Appendices handle code names, a  chronological table, acronyms, comparative ranks and a general selected  bibiliography covering each topical subdivision.<br />There are two indices:  military units/warships, and general subjects. The latter is comprehensive  and will pinpoint your research requirements. <br />Some may not care for the  topical subdivisions;the format doesn't make the book easy to casually leaf  through in orderto get information on a subject on impulse. The index  however, is useful in finding the main entry for the subject you are  researching ( in bold) as well as places where to find more incidental  references to the topic. <br />The section on Units and Organizations, for  example, does not go into operational histories but only the  &quot;organizational profiles&quot;. So if you are interested in both the  structure/character AND the war record of a certain division or elite  formation, you'd have to check out relevant sections in Battles and  Campaigns as well as the &quot;Unit&quot; pages. Also, it's not always easy  to separate the political from the military-operational aspects of cerain  events. However, the index compensates for the unavoidable fragmentation of  these discussions, which is really not a drawback for the most part.<br />The  section on Weapons and Equipment is not simply an annotated tabular  reference such as you find in many of the glossy coffee table &quot;Planes  of the Luftwaffe&quot; picture books. The discussions give an excellent  feel for the pre-war development of the plane, tank or ship under  discussion as well as it's impact on operations and relative performance in  the various theaters and campaigns.<br />I like the idea of the special  section on Strategy, Tactics and Doctrine. These subjects are not analyzed  abstractly, but are related to particular campaigns. Furhter,their wartime  evolution is clearly denoted.<br />Thirty-seven strategical/operational maps  in the beginning of the Battles and Campaigns segment are detailed enough  to follow most of the following discussions.<br />This work, along with the  forthcoming Pacific volumes, belongs on any two-foot shelf of  essential  World War II reading.	2000-05-16
US	53089819	R1RUXAYSW1SMQK	067400163X	797622772	A War To Be Won: Fighting the Second World War	Books	5	149	154	N	Y	Word War II: How Militarily Effective were the antagonists?	This excellent book continues the approach to warfare taken by the authors in their outstanding three-volume edited series: &quot;Military  Effectiveness&quot; published about a decade ago. That book looked at the  First World War and the Second World War (including the interwar period)  from the standpoint of each participating nation. It set up the standard of  &quot;military effectiveness&quot;, taken at the levels of grand  strategy/national policy (to include industrial and economic preparation)  strategy (operational war plans) and battlefield performance (operational  or theater level of war and tactics of divisions to brigades). They have  applied this thorough and enlightening analysis to the present volume. This  focus makes for an excellent &quot;operational history&quot; of the war.  The emphasis is on the work of armies, corps and divisions in theater-level  operations, as opposed to the tales of derring-do at the company or platoon  level. However, one gets a good sense of the plight of the men at the point  of contact. The field commanders are thoroughly and fairly assessed.  Montgomery, for example, is given his due as a great planner and a great  leader of men, but a testy martinet when it came to inter-allied  coordination. I would say that our British cousins would not find any  Monty-bashing here. Rommel likewise is fairly handled. Guderian's halo is  removed;his role as a &quot;good Nazi&quot; does not detract from his  reputation as a hard-charger, but his brashness in dealing with his  colleagues in other units is brought out. <br />Throughout, there is a  constant interplay between  the pre-war plans and preparations with the  results of each operation. National temperament and command styles are  neatly summarized. <br />There is no waste of words. The text is gripping,  concise and lively. There are no anecdotal asides --- one gets the  impression that these two are writing from accumulated expertise over a  long period rather than from note cards with colorful &quot;filler&quot;  spliced in-- a fault of too many World War II books of late. <br />Appendices  on military organization, weapons systems, the art of war and the  documentary sources are mini-encyclopedia in themselves.<br />This book is  indeed the definitive book on how the &quot;war to be won&quot; was, in  fact, won by the allies and lost by the Axis. <br />Highly recommended for  both the knowledgeable buff and the novice.	2000-05-07
US	53089819	R3KGVHSKMO820S	1850758913	268835607	Turbulent Times?: Josephus and Scholarship on Judaea in the First Century CE (The Library of Second Temple Studies)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Decoding Josephus: Handbook for a history on Judaean Revolt	It is widely held that Josephus Flavius, virtually our sole comprehensive contemporary source for the Jewish revolt against Rome in 66-73 CE, and -- not so incidentally-- the historical background to the Gospels, was a  deceiver. His narrative in The Jewish War, as well as the relevant portions  of his &quot;Life&quot; and &quot;Jewish Antiquities&quot;, is tainted by  his need to remove the twin accusations of traitor (by the Jewish people)  and wiley agitator (by his Roman patrons). <br />McLaren shows how most modern  scholarship tends to accept that Josephus' narrated  &quot;events&quot;  were basically factual but the spin that he puts on causes and effects is  designed to foster his world-view. However, M rejects this approach.  Instead, one has to question the very presentation of Josephus' facts and  try to subject each and every passage to the test of &quot;inherent  probability&quot; in conjunction with all other sources and an  understanding about what was likely to have actually happened. Then one can  go back and in effect rewrite Josephus by using a &quot;case study&quot;  approach, isolating each separate incident from Josephus' action-reaction  cycle. <br />McLaren demonstrates how Josephus' description of a spiralling  cycle of Roman misrule and Jewish reaction tries to explain the outbreak of  rebellion in 66. However, McLaren doubts that the pattern was so direct and  neat. He believes that Josephus tends to cover up sincere religious  eschatology (which the his own priestly caste had ignored), and messianism.  The latter were quite prevalent, but don't fit in with the  aristocratic/priestly world view underlying their continued claim on Jewish  loyalties even after the destruction of the Temple...their power base.  Josephus posits Roman perfidy at the local level and Jewish intransigence  as the twin culprits. <br />This approach is novel, but has some problems. For  example, one reviewer notes that Tacitus, who certainly doesn't share  Josephus'world view, has essentially the same spin on the causes. <br />  McLaren does show us three examples at the end of the book: (1) the  cessation of Temple sacrifices on behalf of the emperor as casus bellum;  (2) the siege of Masada; and (3) the assault on fortress Machaerus.  However, it's not clear that this method will work in all cases, leaving  much of Josephus version intact.<br />Nonetheless, the review of recent  scholarship alone --over 1/3 of the book-- is quite valuable.<br />The proof  will be in McLaren's promised full scale history of the Revolt using his  methodology. <br />Meanwhile, Josephus buffs or anyone interested in First  Century CE Judaea, Roman Empire or early Christianity will profit from  reading this fascinating exploration in historiography.	2000-05-07
US	53089819	RVCUYHVL073V7	0060929928	720721128	The 2000 Year Old Man in the Year 2000: The Book	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	It's thin.I laughed. Call me a schlemiehl!	True, it's about a two hour read for most -- five for me but I tracethe words with my finger as I read. On the plane, I laughedaloud. There was some whispering and the woman next to me changed her seat. Some of it may be recycled shtick but it still seems fresh. Most I've never seen/heard and I have listened to the Old Man CDs. I'd say there's fifty belly laughs, ten chortles, one guffaw, three titters and a smile.  It will give you a few hours of delightfully outrageous grumpy old Jewish man humor. I should know. Buy it. Read it. Laugh. Eat your oatmeal and let me alone already.  END	2000-03-29
US	53089819	R1I9TSBK4IQNXL	0198152418	555036547	Warfare in Roman Europe, AD 350-425 (Oxford Classical Monographs)	Books	5	51	52	N	N	A Rounded View of How Rome Dealt with the Barbarian Threat	This book came out the same year as Southern and Dixon's _The Late Roman Army_, covering the same period. Unlike that of S&amp;D, Elton's work is no mere recital of artifacts and programs. It shows how each side was able to  employ its manpower, finances, organizational skills, leadership talents  and weapons procurement capabilities to defend or expand it's living space  against a flesh and blood antagonist.<br />Dixon and Southern show the  evolution of the various factors, but don't really seem to relate them to  the heart of the matter: the fighting man at the bloody point of contact.  Elton never loses sight of this ultimate rationale for mobilization,  recruitment, and strategy-making -- combat. His book is all the better for  it. He does for the twilight struggle of the Western Empire what Adrian  Goldsworthy did for it's high tide in his equally relevant and absorbing  _The Roman Army at War_. I grow tired of books that pretend to explain Rome  and her enemies  and end up being mere outlines of unconnected factors,  replete with organizational charts and nifty drawings of weapons and  uniforms. Elton writes for the serious student of warfare in late  antiquity, but in a style that will appeal to the military buff as well as  the classicist. Highly recommended to afficionados of ancient warfare,  classicists,war-gamers, armchair strategists ...or anyone who wants to  examine the military side of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.	2000-03-08
US	53089819	R1OISQQ8K6FHS5	0195083830	22344938	Clausewitz in English: The Reception of Clausewitz in Britain and America, 1815-1945	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Expert Guide to War History and Theory 1832-Today	This is one book that offers much MORE than its title promises. Not only do the opening chapters offer one of the clearest expositions of Clausewitz's rather abstruse (though worthwhile) writings on the philosophy  and practice of war, but the book presents a clear review and critique of  how the principles and practice of war was taught in the English speaking  world in the past  century and a half. The reception of Clausewitz in the  US and the former British Commonwealth nations has been mixed, as Bassford  shows through his skilfull and fascinating tour of military academy  textbooks and the writings of thinkers such as Liddell Hart, Fuller,  Hamley, Henderson, and some lesser known lehrmasters of modern combat. This  is not dry academic theorizing but a well-written crash course in the way  our conception of the higher direction of war has evolved. Bassford shows  how, the taint of Prussian, then German &quot;militarism&quot; has unfairly  been used against Clausewitz by superficial (or cynical) interpreters ...  people who use C. to embellish the &quot;martinet&quot; stereotype.  <br />Whether or not you agree with Bassford's criticisms of well-respected  modern military historians such as Liddell-Hart and Keegan, his arguments  are cogent and clear. <br />Anyone addressing the &quot;problem&quot; of total  war  should consult this book and keep it handy.	2000-02-27
US	53089819	R1K91MC9KII1NK	0815603584	419806058	Tale of the Next Great War, 1871-1914: Fictions of Future Warfare and of Battles Still-to-Come	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Germans (French, Russians, etc.) are coming! Prepare!	This book is an excellent sampling of the new genre of science fiction that evolved during the run-up to the Great War. I.F. Clarke's fascinating introduction and notes are alone worth the price of the book. He gives a  sprightly and informative review of how the &quot;Future War&quot; tale  evolved in the wake of the shocking rapid victory of newly unified Germany  over France in 1870. This first of the &quot;lightning campaigns&quot;  electrified British Col. of Engineers George Chesney into writing an  anonymous series of stories for Blackwood's Magazine in 1871, purporting to  be a &quot;history&quot;, told in 1925, by an English veteran of the  disastrous invasion of England by the superbly trained and armed Germans in  1875. This bombshell of a cautionary tale caused a frantic debate in  Parliament over the preparedness issue. It also was the prototype of the  whole genre sampled in this collection. Chesney's &quot;The Battle of  Dorking&quot; is the first and longest of these Victorian and Georgian era  semi-fictional battle forecasts. Examples from several nations involved in  the arms buildup of the late 19th and early 20th centuries present a  rounded view. Land and sea warfare innovations are depicted as they might  be used in the near future. It is fascinating to read how the future  antagonists saw the enemy and the shape of the next war. It gives you a  contemporary view of the war jitters that led to the horrible holocaust of  1914-1918 -- the horror of which is never anticipated in these tales of  bravado and derring-do. I have just received the sequel anthology &quot;The  Great War With Germany&quot; and can't wait to read it. Highly recommended.	2000-02-12
US	53089819	R28NL310NYKK77	0761807691	804765579	History of Israel's War of Independence, Vol. 3: The First Invasion (Volume III)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Definitive Treatise on the 1948 War; for the serious student	I have purchased all three volumes (so far, of  a projected 12 total) of this massive and detailed analysis of the first Arab-Israeli War. Milstein is a debunker, but is not aligned with any particular ideology or party in  Israel. He challenges some of the cherished myths, but does not challenge  the basic assumptions of Zionism. He believes that the Israelis were  militarily very unprepared for the struggle and that their vaunted  intelligence services(rudimentary but active in the 1940s) should have  foreseen the type of conflict that Zionist policies made inevitable.  I  eagerly await his forthcoming volume IV, now in print for some promised  revelations on the notorious Deir Yassin incident...an atrocity against  Arab village residents that still resonates in the history of this 50-year  war. This set is ONLY for those scholars and historians of the event. It is  extremely detailed and highly analytical. For example, the fourth volume  only brings the story down to the end of April 1948...BEFORE the full-scale  hostilities following the invasion (May 15, 1948) by the regular armies of  the surrounding Arab states. Although Milstein has been attacked as a  right-wing historian, this is unfair. For example, he believes that,  contrary  to their claim, the regular army of fledgling Israel (pre-state),  the Hagganah, was in on the details of Dier Yassin and sought to pin the  total blame on the Irgun when the Red Cross issued its damning report.  Highly recommended for researchers. I would have given the book five stars;  however, the fact that  there are 12 volumes to report a one and a half  year conflict with perhaps six weeks of active hostilities between truces  gives me pause. As I indicated, only the dedicated enthusiast or researcher  will want to own the whole set. That said, reading the book is essential  for professionals. I hope that Milstein will one day condense his valuable  data and insights into an accessible one-volume treatment.	2000-01-30
US	53089819	R355L0DXRSIV9N	9004106790	396437853	3: Flavius Josephus: Translation and Commentary : Judean Antiquities 1-4	Books	5	40	40	N	N	The Definitive Josephus	Most will want to compare this edition to the Loeb Classics version. Loeb offers facing page Greek text, which this edition does not. However, since I don't read Greek, this was not a problem. Whereas Loeb carries a modicum of footnotes explaining disputed points, the  Brill  edition is about 75% commentary, contained in  extensive and  enlightening footnote/essays on every page. The general introduction to  Josephus as well as the introduction to Antiquities in particular has  something to say to both novice and  the reader familiar with Josephan  scholarship. My own interest is in the War and the Life, which will not be  printed for a few years. So I ordered Antiquities to see whether the  project was worthwhile for future reference. I will have no hestiation in  ordering other volumes as they become available.  Louis Feldman's masterful  commentary is a compendium of current scholarship on Josephus' rendition of  the Old Testament. Even Books III, which concern matters of Jewish law,  chiefly as concerns ritual and observance, but also social strictures, were  enlivened and made relevant to Josephus' aims and historical context by Dr.  Feldman's expert insights. The indices key on ancient texts,including the  Torah, Rabbinical commentary (Midrash) and parallel relevant Greek and  Roman historical works, plus persons, places, and modern authors. I  compared the translation of the opening paragraph to the same passage in  the Loeb. The differences are quite interesting and clearly show how Dr.  Feldman and his colleagues picked up nuances from the original that  Thackeray (the Loeb translator) had missed. I unhesitatingly  recommend  this edition. Of course the entire set will be prohibitively costly.  University libraries will carry them no doubt. However if you are   intrigued with Josephus, as I am, you will want to own some selected  volumes. This is truly a work of reference to which I will return again and  again.	2000-01-28
US	53089819	R1JIPY3XQCJ61X	0943575990	388783381	Josephus and the New Testament	Books	5	85	88	N	N	One of the Best Overall Introductions to Josephus	As a Jew, I was not looking for a pietistic Christian work, but one that would give me insights into how Josephus was received and utilized by the Church Fathers. I found Steve Mason to be an amicable and informative guide  to the Christian perspective as well as a wonderful introduction to  Josephus' life, works and world in general. I have read all of Josephus in  the annotated Loeb editions and found new insights  throughout this  excellent little survey. Further, it contains one of the most incisive and  reasonable discussions of the highly controversial Testimonium Flavianum --  Josephus' alleged witness to the life and mission of Jesus. I have since  have had the pleasure of reading other books by  Steve Mason on Josephus  and have corresponded with Dr. Mason by e-mail. He is, along with Louis  Feldman (who focuses on Old Testament issues) a  leading authority on  Josephus. This book illustrates why he is not only a great authority but a  most effective instructor. Highly recommended.	2000-01-23
US	53089819	R2LWEAO5E3WAL	0815410050	606597643	Hannibal	Books	3	44	45	N	Y	Serviceable Introduction to Hannibal and his Campaigns	In the realm of popular history, which should aim to educate while telling an entertaining story, this book outclasses its current competition in the price range. <br />Baker betrays the 1929 origin of this book in his  windy  and rather platitudinous political analogies to then-current political  science. At times his generalities about Hannibal's (contrasted to Rome's)  political philosophy and psychology are confusingly vague. However, he does  provide a solid account of the likely cause and course of this almost  legendary war-leader's doomed struggle to break Rome's challenge to  Carthaginian supremacy in maritime trade. <br />The descriptions of  strategies, battles, outcomes and options are well done. Baker's numerous  biographies of ancient emperors and empires usually gave an informed  critique of military probabilities. <br />I prefer this book to that of  Leonard Cottrell, its closest competitor. Cottrell is rather disjointed and  discursive, trying to blend travelogue with history. Baker sticks to the  chronological narrative and is easy to follow, thanks to the now outmoded  (but useful) technique of providing topical sub-headings in the margins of  each page. <br />If you are looking for a strictly military account, then try  John Lazenby's _Hannibal's War_, now available in a paperback version. If  you want a reliable introduction to Hannibal providing good  background as  well as a review of the military action and diplomatic effects, then Baker  is a cut  above the others. <br />He provides sufficient footnotes to  elucidate issues where Baker quibbles with his ancient sources, Polybius  and Livy or where the two sources can't be reconciled. He shows that he is  conversant with the scholarship of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.  In a work of popular history, the lack of access to scholarly debate since  1929 is not too troubling. <br />Baker, for example provides and interesting  discussion on the way in which Rome most likely  managed to build up a  fleet to challenge Carthage in short order. <br />Recommended for high school  and college undergraduate collateral reading in courses on Ancient History.	2000-01-10
US	53089819	R3RC5UVSUKL6NM	0804116989	920519732	Fighting in Hell: The German Ordeal on the Eastern Front	Books	3	47	49	N	N	A Collection of German Command Debriefings from the 1950s	As noted in other reviews, this book, contrary to the back cover hype, is NOT a dramatic &quot;you are there&quot; narrative of East Front horrors. It IS a  selection from the so-called German Reports Series. This  collection was produced for the education of US Army officers in the late  1940s and early 1950s and drew on the selective memories of German  officers. The authors were debriefed by US military historians while the  former were still POWs. The idea was for the Army to tap into the  Wehrmacht's  experiences in fighting the Russians -- a big American concern  at that time. As such, the pieces are tailored to a &quot;lessons  learned&quot; presentation. Some German bias shines through the staff  college lecture style of the writing.  The authors did not really have much  insight into the quality of the Russian soldier or leadership.<br />They did  appreciate the tactics used against them and the countermeasures that they  had to improvise in daunting circumstances. But amidst all this fragmentary  military ephemera, there is no real insight as to how and why they were  defeated along the Don and the Dnepr River basins.<br />Many of these  selections are available from the US Government Printing office as reprints  of the original US Army Pamphlets (then classified &quot;restricted&quot;)  from 45+ years ago. The value of this book is that it makes the material  available to a wider reading public under a cheap single cover. However,  the value would be enhanced by annotations or commentary pointing out the  biases of the German authors and bringing in information available since  then from the gradually opening ex-Soviet war archives.	1999-12-24
US	53089819	R2X8A9ABGTPBZ7	9004094717	197959500	Jerusalem Under Siege: The Collapse of the Jewish State, 66-70 C.E. (Brill's Series in Jewish Studies)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding First Jewish Revolt Survey for Serious Research	Thankfully the author rearranged his doctoral dissertation in writing this book. It is a chronological narrative rather than the inherently repetitious thematic format typical of theses. Lengthy scholarly debates  and asides have been relegated to 14 appendices that take up almost half  the book. For my own purposes, research on the military history of the  rebellion, those on Jewish army strengths, structure, weapons and fighting  methods were invaluable. Price believes that Josephus, in his effort to  point the finger at a few of the rebel factions...the so-called Zealots and  the Sicarii-- did not probe deeply enough to reveal the basic divisions  among the different social classes, religious groups, leadership, and  economic interests in Judaea. In hilighting these internal fractures, he  necessarily concentrates upon the infighting in the capital (68/69) and  Titus' siege of Jerusalem in 70 CE, the previous four years of the war  being covered in a few enlightening chapters. Given the controversial  nature of Josephus, our principal informant, Price engages in  historiographical discussion throughout the book, trying to re-read  Josephus from the viewpoint of the Jewish resistance. He has provided ample  discussion in footnotes where he differs with modern authorities. His  discussion of the proper use of Josephus, in the text and the appendices,  is exemplary. However, given the cost of the book and it's scholarly,  though readable, approach, those with a more casual interest in the revolt  should probably try to dig up a copy of the Penguin edition of Josephus'  Jewish War.<br />This book definitely fills a void. Studies of the military  aspect of the Great Revolt are very hard to find. One must scour the  scattered backfiles of theological journals, archaelogical series and  classical reviews. Jerusalem Under Siege will serve  as a definitive  reference on the nature and course of military operations as well as the  quality of the Jewish leadership. <br />Large metropolitann libraries and  university collections should own this book.	1999-12-10
US	53089819	RJWGU8EMO4LFL	0840378629	703880467	Elusive Victory: The Arab-Israeli Wars, 1947-1974	Books	4	17	17	N	N	As a Contributor to the book I am biased, HOWEVER...	I was a research consultant on this book project under contract with TN Dupuy's think tank, Historical Evaluation and Research Organization. I worked up some data and battle studies for the 1947-49 hostilities and  naval actions for all the wars. Knowing first-hand the amount of research  that the late Col. Dupuy put into this book, I can vouch for his efforts to  get the Arab side of the story. The research team corresponded with many  spokespersons from all antagonists... except the Syrians, who simply  recycled their canned wartime propaganda. The battle analysis is based on  Dupuy's Quantified Judgement Method, a formula to gauge relative combat  effectiveness. This formula has been challenged with respect to German  versus American forces in Europe, 1944-45, but I believe that it is  essentially sound for the various Mideast combatants. <br />I would say that  the book should remain in print-- as of late 1999 it is still available in  some bookstores (Borders and B&amp;N)but is not currently in print. Any  reissue, however, should at least have a new preface commenting on research  and reviews since the book's 1978 publication date. (the new edition would  get five stars, in my not so humble opinion).<br />For my own part, I know  that some of the conclusions on the 1948 fighting need to be modified in  light of recent work on Arab preparations and strengths.	1999-11-28
US	53089819	RPBZXCIUKN2D9	0399131493	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Interesting and exciting take on How it Might Have Been	This book of course is dated, but it is an interesting play-through of the maritime doctrine of that period. Key battles, including aerial, are at sea (or depend on seapower) since the book was derived from the wargame,  Harpoon designed by TC's colleague Larry Bond, a techno-thriller author in  his own right.<br />The tale is not typical of Clancy, in that he doesn't stay  with a single set of characters, but there is a lot of cutting to the  different theaters of war... cinemtatic technique typical of a wartime  documentary, familiar to us from  the opening scenes of &quot;Saving  Private Ryan&quot;.<br />All in all, an easily digestible way to revisit the  way in which the US Navy imagined the Big One with the Evil Empire would  play out...at least this is the way they projected it to the Congressional  appropriations committees.<br />For a more prosaic, less dramatic,  play-through of the view from 1978, read Sir John Hackett, et. al., The  Third World War, August, 1985. The Hackett committee's style mimics the  military history textbook for those who prefer that approach. It also  reflects NATO's wish list as of 1978 to meet the apparent Soviet Airland  threat.<br />This &quot;Imaginary War Novel&quot; has a history going back to  the British Colonel of Volunteers, Sir George T. Chesney, whose 1871 _The  Battle of Dorking_ projected a German invasion of the British Isles. It is  interesting that Tom Clancy stepped out of character to try his hand at the  genre before returning to his more character-centered tecnhothrillers.	1999-10-03
US	53089819	R3JBB28ZYNV0S	0835236846	296436588	Anatomy of Wonder: A Critical Guide to Science Fiction	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Sci fi fans and scholars will enjoy this book	If you need to research an area of science fiction, or its related fields (the guide's range is pretty eclectic) this is a wonderful starting place. I prefer to browze through it and read the summaries of neglected titles.  There are plenty of topical, personal, author, etc. indices and sections on  film, criticism, Sci fi for young people -- a treasure trove. I always find  something new and intriguing. Browsing this weighty volume leads me back to  Amazon.com for more compulsive book buying	1999-04-09
US	53089819	RFM8U6UOKKTFY	0140444203	568905062	The Jewish War: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	100	101	N	N	A Forgotten Classic in an accessible yet scholarly edition	The &quot;real&quot; Josephus is a very hot topic among Christian theologians looking for the actuality behind the gospels and students of Judaica trying to go beyond Josephus' usual superficial &quot;traitor&quot;  image. If you can't read the original Greek, the next best thing is to read  the Loeb (Harvard U. Press) Classics edition with facing English and Greek  text. However, even that format might be heavy going for the more casual,  but curious, reader. The Penguin edition is far from a watered down  popularized version of the Loeb. It is  a condensed rendering without  sacrificing essential detail. The liberties taken by Williamson largely  consist of rearranging J's  clumsy seven parts into 23 easily digested  chapters. The most valuable part of this edition, however, is not  Willliamson's lucid translation but E. Mary Smallwood's outstanding notes  and appendices. Her historical asides provide a crash course in the  then-current scholarship on the Josephus Problem.<br />The narrator is a  self-serving,wiley ex-Priest of the Jerusalem Temple who was a  &quot;general&quot; on the crucial Galilee front, until he was taken  captive under mysterious circumstances. He cleverly prophesized&quot; that  his captor, Vespasian, would be the next emperor. Meanwhile, J served his  former enemy as an intelligence analyst and intermediary. Eventually, after  the fall of Judaea, he became a protege Emperor Vespasian and his son  Titus, soon to be successor. Using his own notes and memory (quite  selective and filtered) and the official field reports as well as the war  diaries of Vespasian and Titus, Jewish expatriate Josephus wrote what  amounts to the official Roman military history of the war against the Jews.  Yet he did not totally sell out. He managed to portray his countrymen as  mounting a valiant, though nherently futile, effort.<br />This is no dry  dusty &quot;classic&quot; -- it is an exciting, dramatic illustration of  how Roman military power deals with an intractable and fanatic province.  Apart from Julius Caesar's accounts of his military exploits, there are few  such detailed expositions of imperial Rome at war.<br />If you have any  interest in the crisis of Judaism, the birth of Christianity, the Roman War  Machine, or simply a cracking good adventure yarn...this book is for you.  Josephus' story behind the history would make an excellent topic for a  screenplay.<br />Jim Bloomintractable and fanatic province.  Apart from Julius Caesar's accounts of his military exploits, there are few  such detailed expositions of imperial Rome at war.<br />If you have any  interest in the crisis of Judaism, the birth of Christianity, the Roman War  Machine, or simply a cracking good adventure yarn...this book is for you.  Josephus' story behind the history would make an excellent topic for a  screenplay. <br />Jim Bloom	1998-11-05
US	53089819	R3RDCSIVJ7A9HK	0198150571	482957795	The Roman Army at War 100 BC - AD 200 (Oxford Classical Monographs)	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	At Last -- a Roman Army Book That's More than  a Catalog	This study takes a giant stride past the heavily illustrated uniform and equipment guide approach that typifies the accessible literature on  the Roman war machine. Instead of another piecemeal anatomy of the Roman army's elements and field techniques,Goldsworthy -- much as W. Hanson did for the Greek hoplite -- takes the reader onto the battlefield where each aspect of the army -- command, morale, tactics, weapons, logistics, perimeter defense, reconnaissance, etc. -- can be seen in relation to the whole.  The author illustrates his theme by portraying a variety of adversaries in typical campaigns for each region.  The time frame covers the newborn Empire's period of rapid expansion, when the legions were still adapting to the widely differing fighting styles along porous and ill-defined &quot;frontiers&quot;.  I found this book (along with Hugh Elton's companion work on the later Roman army) immensely useful in researching my articles on the campaigns in Judaea in the first and second centuries CE. It told me just what I needed to know: what probably transpired on the battlefield, in the camps, during the advance and back in headquarters, as well as the reactions and adjustments of the Roman and barbarian infantry and cavalry.  Highly recommended.  Jim Bloom Silver Spring, MD	1997-11-25
US	53089819	RT7XPLYTPRSPH	0313289301	922521577	The Great Battles of Antiquity: A Strategic and Tactical Guide to Great Battles that Shaped the Development of War	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good primer but details are sometimes fudged to fit theory	This survey of 31 ancient battles is tailored to fit the &quot;lessons learned&quot; or principles of war approach used in traditional military academy texts. It is a handy introduction to the battles in light of the Art of War but the reader should be cautioned that the authors seemed limited to (based on the limited bibliographical lists) secondary sources and these do not usually reflect the latest or most accurate scholarship. This is particularly important regarding ancient military history where the original source material itself has to be cross-checked with many other accounts since ancient authors or editors were so often biased or simply uninformed. <br />   If you are looking for a handy review of ancient and dark age battles in general, this is a good place to start. However, if you need to research a particular region or campaign, by all means go to specialist studies and don't limit yourself to those suggested in this survey.  Jim Bloom	1997-10-29
US	53089819	RL2XCY9KDQE19	0801821584	253524655	The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire: From the First Century A.D. to the Third	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The book is a seminal work in the Roman Strategy controversy	Luttwack's thesis, that late Republican and early Imperial Rome had a deliberate long-range grand strategy that dictated the siting of its frontier defenses, was challenged in 1991 by Israeli classicist Benjamin Isaac's The Limits of Empire. Isaac, in essence, claimed that Roman frontier defenses were not set in accordance with a phased plan of conquest, but in order to control ambivalent populations along the fringe areas and to ensure non-interference from the outlanders.   The debate, unusually heated for classicists, has on the whole tended to bolster Luttwack somewhat in arguing for a rational &quot;forward defense&quot; policy.   Luttwack's original thesis (1976) was written with contemporary US defense planning in mind; how to spread sparse post-Vietnam American assets so as to most efficiently check Soviet agressive designs.   Although Luttwack has generally declined to revisit his Roman tour de force, (he is currently working on a strategical analysis of the Byzantine Empire), it is still a thought-provoking handy review of how Rome pursued a containment policy in the teeth of severe budgetary restraints.	1997-10-27
