US	53088317	R1OTD3FZ1OGB9F	0374528837	513130379	The Founding Fish	Books	5	1	1	N	N	All McPhee all perfect all fabulous.	His one paragraph comment on bow-fishermen (page 94), should  hold enough shame to preclude both more bow-fishing and the breeding of more bow-fishermen. <BR>For you McPhee collectors; 'nuff said.  For you neophytes; start with something simple like &quot;Looking for a Ship&quot; or &quot;Oranges&quot;. Go from there.<BR>The best non-fiction writer in the language.	2004-07-17
US	53088317	R36DOXFCXO1MX0	0312220812	792768683	I May Be Some Time: Ice and the English Imagination	Books	4	14	16	N	N	I began to think then that things were getting a bit serious	If you have come this far into the Antarctic you've already read Lansing, <BR>Mawson, Scott, Shack, Cherry-Garrard, and Lashly. So those trudging first person narratives that caught your attention have given over to the Huntford style management critic, you got that. And here with Spufford you arrive at the analytical pole. This is not a discussion of technique nor tactics but from the South Center you can  look in all directions at religion, music, poetry, myth, media; and the very power of precedence to both push and pull men.  <BR>Here is the geography that makes otherwise hard practical men simply and ultimately spiritual; the deserts frozen or not, hold horizons of nothing that fill mens'  heads with everything. <BR>Beyond this is to dream and hallucinate; try a little <BR>Vollmann. Enjoy the ride. <br />PS. The last chapter of this book is worth its price; 48 pages of the best in the language on Scott and his men.   <BR>It will make you cry.	2003-12-31
US	53088317	R2MZSJ1WBUEWXZ	0156004631	309029038	The Voyage	Books	1	0	7	N	N	Odious, Turgid, Flaccid, Vacant	I haven't read a book this bad since 1971- Harold  Robbins.<br />I was  expecting a novel from the same Robert MacNeil who wrote \\"Wordstruck\\";  clearly a writer so gifted in vocabulary and usage could produce a novel of  startling amusement  and cleverness.  Word candy for readers.  But what we  get here is a kind of Jacqueline Susann meets NAFTA; frenetic coupling, an  orgasm every ten pages, wrapped in the mandatory anti-US rant now required  of all Canadian and French writers. <br />Rutting airline stewardesses are not  of interest, Robert.<br />Rutting airline stewardesses babbling geo-politics  even less so.	2000-08-31
US	53088317	R2VTPQL0UZGGIB	067978117X	922854694	The Living and the Dead: Robert McNamara and Five Lives of a Lost War	Books	1	0	16	N	N	Who edits, who censors?	Why is it that there are no reviews after Nov. 30, 1999?	2000-06-29
US	53088317	R37XBTF9IM9FA3	0380713934	971632676	A History of the Twentieth Century: Volume 1, 1900-1933	Books	2	6	7	N	N	News, Sports and Weather	My preference has been to avoid authors for whom writing is not an individual effort but an industrial enterprise.  Both Mr. Gilbert and his American twin Mr. Ambrose, prolific and omnipresent in the history stacks,  produce such a volume of paper that is quite impossible to be the work of  just single men. <br />Thinking more that in Mr. Gilbert's case, he has an  orchestra of researchers and copy writers who proffer up near finished  work, which he then edits into his style by removing the individuating  writing of others. This can lead to some amusing and albeit depressing  errors, some in fact and others in grammar. <br /> 1) page  84.  Colon,  Panama is and has always been on the Caribbean  coast of that  isthmus.<br /> 2) page 102. The bottom third of this page is  incomprehensibly garbled.  <br />Such blunders early on cast a shadow over  the following thousand pages. They are the kind of technical errors that  show a writing project out of control, pressured by time and budget; the  author's interest distracted as he becomes more of a manager and less of a  writer.  <br />Book Mills have huge advantages over the lone author; massively  parallel, coordinated  and detailed subject analysis, cross-proof reading,  platoons of research assistants spanning the globe on a single subject  hunt. And the authors ability to off-load both interest and responsibility  when his eye wanders.   <br />The down-side of the economies of scale are   that the writing stops; the slow consideration of every sentence, the  amusement of word play,  the passion that forces every detail into  perfection. Good-bye to all that.   Still, Mr. Gilbert's last  responsibility is to read the book that has his name on it. <br />This is not  the last nor the first of Mr. Gilbert's work that I have; but in stumbling  as a amateur historian over poor quality here,  I shall regard each  subsequent page and volume  with some skepticism.  Put this book up on your  shelf next to the volumes of another author cut by the same sword: David  Irving.	2000-05-04
US	53088317	R2GRVKZOIT7VMA	038533401X	186149727	City of Light	Books	1	8	22	N	N	A chick book. No stars.	The heroine  is but a hapless  juvenile. First thing, she is run into a clamp chute and fertilized by a bovine  Grover Cleveland. Can you imagine?  After you stop laughing at  the idiocy  you realize that  this novel is all  down hill from there.  And it takes  real fortitude  to force your way  through the 500 pages of empty  childish  conceit.  Searching  for just   one  responsible  adult.  Again. In one afternoon she declines  a marriage  proposal, is blackmailed with the life of her daughter, and witnesses an  act of industrial sabotage--- what  does she do to relieve the stress;   She--goes---shopping!<br />The author  serves up a menu,  all victims: child  care, homelessness, immigrant  ignorance, emigration,  abortion, poverty,  racism, classism, elitism, socialism, communism,  gay and lesbianism,  unionism, urban crime, environmentalism; she has taken all the concerns of  the present  era and dumped them on a past age, conveniently  dead and  silent. She paints them all with the wide and soft brush of fo-concern,   just  a passing  notice  that the author  is nothing  if not P.C.; but  failing any cogent  analysis, any  attention  beyond the juvenile, any   adult  consideration whatsoever.    When she cannot  triangulate  a  comfortable position between the conflicts, she blames somebody else;  how  easy, how simple, how liberal, how Clintonesque.  She has made  a spectrum  of historical figures (all white males) simplistically  evil so that her  characters  can be better  victims; her obligation to the core of liberal  victimology. Chapter  after chapter, like so many serial episodes  of  \\"Ricki Lake\\", it's  a show , but  there  is no duty,  there  is no  responsibility,  there  is no conscience.   There  is only  the chatty ,  the vacant, the blasé, the self-important.<br />I once attended a university  lecture on the regional political conflicts  that  developed into W.W.II;   the  speaker ( another  female) held up as her reference  Herman Wouk's  \\"TheWinds  of War\\",  a simplistic, easy  novel but her required historical  reading.   The danger  of badly  written historical novels, beyond being   easy and simple, are that their naive messages, appealing to the ignorant,  have a way of becoming  fact. That somewhere  an adult  is holding this  book up to audience  of young  people  saying  \\"history\\".  That  in a rich,  selfish, complacent  and lazy  society  the worst, as in any toilet bowl,  has a way of floating to the top.    \\"City  of Light\\"  floats.	2000-03-29
US	53088317	R3TMA867HDIQYH	006095339X	497867283	Explaining Hitler	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Obsessing on Adolf.	There has been an effort lately to name the \\"person of the century\\" , good or bad. Let's limit the field to only those characters  known world-wide by just one name. Certainly  Hitler will be included within that group; more than some are,  like him,  at least mass murderers. So our century, more  sanguinary  than others seems to bestow  fame  upon  those who manage  to  climb  to the top of a mountain of corpses.   After the atrocity,   the  question  is always Why?  As if in finding the full, complete  and verified  explanation  would in some way soothe  our concerns  about  our world  and  ourselves. If we found the curriculum  and study guides  and the  library   and plans  for the Holocaust  Management  Business School ;  would we be  better  or worse off for knowing?  Mr. Rosenbaum  in looking  for Hitler  interviews  25 \\"explainers\\" a  collection of  historians, psychohistorians,   pundits, philosophers, all manner  of academia  with grant  money  to  spend and time to blow  a few years in Europe.  What  he finds are cliques,  and groups  in trench  warfare against  each  other, sniping  in the  professional journals, tossing press-release  grenades ; squadrons  of  publisits  carpet  faxing the media. <br />One explainer  is combing  all the  existent  photographs   of  early  20th century Vienna looking for just   one protean  image: Freud, Mahler  and Hilter walking  arm in arm on the  Ringstrasse.  If we had that  photo would  the  6 Million  rest  easier?    Would  it stop or start another  50 years of Hilter books?<br />One  dillusional explainer, a former literature student, parses  every Hitler  speach looking for \\"code-words\\" by  which Hitler communicated secret    messages to his followers.  Not finding them  doesn't  mean that Hitler  only meant  what he said; on the contrary , the very absence  of  \\"code-words\\" is  evidence  that  the secret  communications  were  made.   Go figure.  It is the lack of specific  commands  and orders that drive  this explainer and others to read between lines and words; finding just  what  they want. Has the same Rorschach  technique  been applied to  others  on our list, Gandhi, Einstein, Stalin, Mao, Freud, Churchill?  Does  it   tell us more about  the subject  or the \\"explainer\\"?  More  about  ourselves?<br />We meet the goofballs you already know , Goldhagen and his  friend Irving; but the real surprise,  the crank that makes  both  look  like a thoughtful, meticulous, professional historians,  is the unfortunate   Herr Lanzmann.  He has all the answers because  only he is allowed to ask  the questions; all other explainers  are revisionists, justifiers and  deniers...Nazis.  He is the true \\"paper  Eichmann\\" whose  work is to  destroy  all other  analysis, comment  and opinion;  a  Fascist  with a  small  `f'  that  only  Adolf could  hug. Has the community of explainers   accepted into their  fold a Hitlerian  character; hysterical  in his  eliminationist  and  exclusionary  rhetoric?  Are they  afraid of him?   Will they continue to allow  his rant?      <br />It seems to me that  Rosenbaum in bashing around on the world tour of Hitler Studies has  produced two things; the first is the best biography of Hitler yet , not  the tactical  military  dictator, but the person behind the image;   incomplete  but compressive.  The second  is a review of the convoluted and   politically  charged  community  of explainers; those with agendas and  those unbiased, but all engaged in an activity that insures , after a half  a century,   that Hitler lives.<br />Put this book up on your shelf next to  it's only comparable  volume: \\"The Hitler of History\\".	1999-10-12
US	53088317	R3NJC09W4FHAU8	0394717813	421387754	Growth of the Soil	Books	1	2	88	N	N	Whoa!	Remember Franz Stangl, Kommandant of the Treblinka  Extermination Camp? This was his favorite book! Check it out. Gitta Sereny &quot;Into that Darkness&quot; page 348.	1999-04-29
US	53088317	R3ESAMYLHAO5S8	0394710355	168192134	Into That Darkness: An Examination of Conscience	Books	4	59	61	N	N	The Heart of Darkness	You will arrive at this book after Trevor-Roper, Speer, Shirer, Bullock, Churchill, Gilbert, Irving, Ambrose and all the rest; but it is not that type of history.<br /><br />First of all ignore the Nazis marketing; the stark  red, black and white cover with the obligatory swastika and the obligatory   gothic font;  also ignore the obligatory Elie Wiesel imprimatur  on the  back cover. They tell you nothing of what is inside.<br /><br />Ms. Sereny is  primarily an interviewer; in her book &quot;Into That Darkness&quot;  she  produces a biography of Franz Stangl, Kommandant of the Triblinka  extermination   Camp in central Poland in 1943.  For most of us he and his  deathcamp rank at the bottom  if not define human atrocity.  Ms. Sereny   talks to Stangl not a journalist or reporter but as a therapist, and  for  Stangl this is both the first time and the last time &quot;I never talked  to anyone like this&quot;; he dies hours afterwards.<br /><br />Her picture of  Stangl is of a man struggling with his own past behavior, so conflicted in  his inability to reconcile his personal concessions; he has developed into  two men.  One in continuous  battle with the other, irreconcilable in their  differences, both authors of the same criminal acts from inside one mind.   We see both Herr Stangls  parse, compartmentalize, excuse, avoid, dodge,  stonewall and counter-accuse  in a twisted effort to find a logic that   will allow them to inhabit  that  one mind.<br /><br />Just that Stangl  is  twisted in conflict at all means that there was in him a spark of  recognition of both good and evil as separate things.  Moral and immoral,  criminal and civil, humane  and inhumane;  that spark of conscience still  glows enough to allow  a dim and tardy discrimination.  That faint light  surrounded by all that darkness is what tears  him into two personalities;   its the only way he can reconcile  the behavior of both; its the only thing  that keeps him from becoming an animal. Ms. Sereny finds that animal and  turns its slowly in that dim light and destroys both the Stangls.<br /><br />A  third of this book hangs the heavy  cloak of complicity squarely on the  shoulders of the Vatican. She is not too kind to Simon Wiesenthal  either.<br /><br />Put this book up on your shelf next to Arendt.	1999-04-29
US	53088317	R3AB9A4QMFFPWF	0786704675	657433292	Every Man for Himself (Bainbridge, Beryl)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It's not a Movie	Beryl is perfect. You collect all the swells, all the gentlemen, all those perfect graduates of all the right schools that at the end of the Edwardian Era believe themselves to be the best of the best. You add to that roster  all the blatant goldiggers, the social parentheticals and all those female  trollers in whom their mothers had all the best hopes. You put them all on  a ship bound into the winter North Atlantic; and in just one Neptunian  inhalation you sink the boat.<br />  Never in the history of biology has fate  and genetics so conspired to remove from our presence such a conceited and  disgusting group. Beryl wrote this book with a sigh of relief and a  chuckle; you should chuckle too. We are all better for the story and the  biology.	1999-04-14
US	53088317	R2IX0V5LC195YI	0380731673	665380474	Back to the Front:  An Accidental Historian Walks the Trenches of World War I	Books	4	9	10	N	N	You would have walked it and written it youself.	For those of us whom have read Macdonald's &quot;Somme&quot;, Tuchman's matchless &quot;August 1914&quot;, or Cecil's &quot;Flowers of Battle&quot;, this book is a cumulation and a closure. Having done the  preparatory reading  of the histories and the literature of W.W.I; with  O'Shea we follow his journey into the geography of both.O'Shea is a walking  tour of literature, history, geography, politics, tactics, and culture;  with many a comment directed toward us the grandchildren of those so  twisted in self-destruction that it  is still in evidence on the landscape  eight  decades after; it is still reflected in the politics of today. His  is a walking commentary, with reference to  and critique of every social  aspect that contributed to and resulted from the Western Front. O'Shea's  observation is clear. The losers in war list their dead individually, so  the endless drone of the recitation of the names of the victims will mask  the names of the criminal.The statistics of the Great War are still  staggering: From the Battle of the Somme, 73,412 bodies unidentified,  600,000 known dead just on the Allied side, one battle. From the Battle of  the Argonne,  more shot and shell fired in 72 hours than in the entire US  Civil War. From Verdun, 60,000 French dead in 60 minutes. This book should  make you sick, this book should clear you head of any military pretensions  for your son or daughters.    If you've bulked up on W.W.I. history and  literature and need a book to pull it all together, this is that book. Put  it up on your shelf next to Fussell, Junger, and Barker.	1999-02-02
US	53088317	R2QEXLLTYTAARL	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Way more than 5.	Blood Meridian will lead you to all the other Cormac McCarthy books, for that same clear power and beauty; but you will not find it.It is  here only that McCarthy has taken the language and forged a novel of such individual  intensity that it will strike you like the single clear tone from one huge  bell. It is an exploration of an archaic vocabulary and a lost culture  using a storytellers skill that was last used by Homer. The story and plot  are irrelevant other than McCarthy has fashioned a group of crudely  chiseled characters on a wide wide horizon of fine resolution; and he moves  the characters across a blasted panorama in a pounding and relentless  drama. There are portions of the prose that are so perfect in assembly and  content that, like the Bible and just a half dozen other documents in  English, they should be read aloud.<br /> In the thousands of books that I  will read in the second half of my life I hope to find one more  to equal  this Blood Meridian.Put this book up on a shelf next to Homer, Cervantes,  Melville, and Joyce.	1999-01-20
US	53088317	R1SL0M56UDS72V	1883642698	595078035	Face of a Hero	Books	3	2	3	N	N	This is far from a novel.	This memoir is closer to Fussell's &quot;Doing Battle&quot;, Thomsen's &quot;My Two Wars&quot;  or Manchester's &quot;Goodbye Darkness&quot; than Heller, Vonnegut or Herr. In 1950 memoirs about schizzy post adolescent  bomber crews were far from the main in war publishing. The destruction of  young men in air combat was not yet popularized, anti-heroes were not  admired, readers were not considering the sorrow, the pity, and the  insanity. The editors took Falstein's  diary stripped out the dates,  replaced the writer with the fictional Ben, and the book was forgotten.  Heller takes the same story amplifies the comedy, expands the insanity,  writes a real novel around the diary experiences; and delivers that product  to his editors just when anti-heroes are becoming cool. Monster  bestseller.If you are looking for the war experience Falstein and Thomsen  are the choice, looking for entertainment its Heller or Vonnegut. Put this  book up on your shelf of memoirs,  that is where it belongs.	1999-01-18
US	53088317	RD07DNYLHKX4P	1883642698	595078035	Face of a Hero	Books	4	2	3	N	N	This is far from a novel.	This memoir is closer to Fussell's Doing Battle, Thomsen's My Two Wars  or Manchester's Goodbye Darkness  than Heller, Vonnegut or Herr. In 1950 memoirs about schizzy post adolescent bomber crews were far from the main  in war publishing. The destruction of young men in air combat was not yet  popularized, anti-heroes were not admired, readers were not considering the  sorrow, the pity, and the insanity. The editors tookFalstein's  diary  stripped out the dates, replaced the writer with the fictional Ben, and the  book was forgotten. Heller takes the same story amplifies the comedy,  expands the insanity, writes a real novel around the diary experiences; and  delivers that product to his editors just when anti-heroes are becoming  cool. Monster bestseller.If you are looking for the war experience Falstein  and Thomsen are the choice, looking for entertainment its Heller or  Vonnegut. Put this book up on your shelf of memoirs,  that is where it  belongs.	1999-01-04
US	53088317	RPX15YI2B6D4B	0312163657	962460962	Francis Drake: Lives of a Hero	Books	4	3	19	N	N	Old Technic New Water	The Key to Sir Francis Drake was that he was in the essence a shallow water boatman.The technique of long distance navigation had been discovered and exploited by the time Drake hit the water. Drakes first edge in his  line of work was that he sailed to the West Indies with shallow water boats  on board his transatlantic ships, in partially assembled form or complete  'ready for action' towed behind.  His second edge was that he had the  sponsorship of the Queen of the Realm, E1.  With The  Royal Patronage, like  007 he could do whatever, no problem.  Let Sir Fancis test his new maritime  tactics in the shallow lagoons and bays of the Caribbean against the hated  Espanish, if he succeeds everybody's rich, if he fails he's dead. In the  early years Sr. Francis exploited every advantage; particularly the huge  differences in time and distance between the government of Spain and its  Western claims. In  Francis' time those regions barely qualified as any  governmental area, so far from  authority and management they were.   Happening upon a likely victim,  our pirate simply cut a deal with the site  governors, the treasure caravan leaders, and the treasure ship captains in  transit. Francis took most but left enough to make the employees rich.  He  cast off with fair regards for all people, and  everybody  involved looked  forward to the &quot;Good Pirates&quot; return next season. Philip of Spain  was more circumspect. Over a period of years he established his authority  via clear management lines of responsibility and procedures for the  transportation of loot and filthy lugar.  After the Spanish King  consolidated his realm, Sr. Francis days were done. The Spanish had yet  another use for our pirate hero. It was Spanish Literature that was first  to elevate Sr. Francis  to the place of folk hero, epic warrior, and  national poltergeist.  For a generation whisper of &quot;El Dragon&quot;  was sufficient to warn every child to bed and more importantly every  shippingmanager, captain and dock clerk to do his best for King and kind.	1998-11-17
US	53088317	R8NSVUA3ZDY26	0471283290	313575904	The White Tecumseh: A Biography of General William T. Sherman	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Good book, Bad maps.	The book presents a few maps poorly drawn without  relief, detail, contrast or clarity;  primitive  and in every aspect uninformative.  It makes this reader sick to follow the detailed accounts of 3 armies  maneuvering against 2 opposing forces in a complex geography; where each  commander is trying to maximize every geographical advantage, and be  referred to the included maps that actually detract from the clarity of the  story.  Every military historian knows that in a conflict between two  forces the geography is always the third combatant. Nowhere more so than in  the last half of the US Civil War where the minority forces were in a  protracted defensive struggle. Shermans only equal, Joe E. Johnston, was a  master of defensive topography; all the more reason to bless Sherman's  biography with maps worthy of both  characters and the conflict.  Hirshson,  if he understood this, let his editor proffer maps that are  &quot;cute&quot; rather than useful. In reading this book you should take  along your copy of the &quot;West Point Atlas of American Wars  Vol.1.&quot;, or refer back to Mr. Foote's boatanchor for topographic  resolution. Burke Davis's book &quot;Sherman's March&quot; covering only a  portion of Hrishson'seffort is a better product.	1998-11-17
US	53088317	R2DCP7LUWXQFJJ	0380763141	146402537	Churchill's War	Books	4	48	55	N	N	Good-Ol'-Winnie with warts	&quot;History will deal severely with Chamberlain--- I know---because I shall write it&quot;Winston Chruchill wrote that history and won the Nobel prize for it; and so set the formula for all succeeding histories. Second  only to securing the safety of his nation Mr. Churchill, historian,  essayist, biographer, and critic, had to produce his version first. Of the  major personalities of  that era Churchill  was the only one who wrote; who  got his version to the world.  Irving's biography  shows why Churchill had  to write.The book is not for the casual  reader. The assumption is that the  reader has a few WW2 histories, European geography, and British politics  well  understood. Irving's sole effort is to sift through the fine details  of the accepted history and find contradictions, new events, and additional  interpretations of the facts.  His book is so packed with detail, all  contexturally suspended on a web of assumption and  conclusion,  that  without some background you will  miss  the astonishing story. Irving is  not afraid  to surmise given some  facts and not afraid  to stretch to  obvious conclusions, he could be dead wrong but at least he's got it out  there.  Irving has gone deeper into the details and  found both more  complicated personalities and events,  and having found new and startling  information he can interpret them the way he pleases.  His Biographies are  not flattering, on first take, but by adding new and counter-characteristic  details,  Irving makes  Churchill  more real, more fallible, and his  accomplishments all  the more extraordinary.  Irving is not shy of adding  a black-eye where the documents support it,  and he (Irving) has taken a  few slaps for doing so; but only because he is emphatic in relating what he  has found, and dares his critics to prove the obverse.<br />Irving is good for  us readers of history. You should find the best historical writing at least  controversial, if not outrageous. When we all  agree on all  aspects of  every story, history ends, biography ends; Irving becomes the other  historian Winston..... Winston Smith.<br />Winston-o-files are going hate this  book but all should read it through. Put it up on your shelf next to  Gilbert and Manchester. Another book covering the same period from the  other side of the Channel is the ignored masterpiece &quot;The Collapse of  the Third Republic&quot; by Shirer.aspects of  every story, history ends, biography ends; Irving becomes the other  historian Winston..... Winston Smith.<br />Winston-o-files are going hate this  book but all should read it through. Put it up on your shelf next to  Gilbert and Manchester. Another book covering the same period from the  other side of the Channel is the ignored masterpiece &quot;The Collapse of  the Third Republic&quot; by Shirer.	1998-11-10
US	53088317	R2MZACTHEYUCOH	0786705442	121686967	Shackleton	Books	5	22	23	N	N	&quot;Great Shacks, this is good stuff!&quot;	Huntford's book is the definitive Shackleton. Contemporaries compare him  to Churchill; in his ability to use language with presence of personality  to entertain, convince and convert listeners into followers. He couldn't be  trusted with women or money but on the ice or at sea many men trusted him  with their lives; repeatedly. He had the ability to make his dreams yours  and make you want to achieve them. You will find here the leadership that  was beyond Scotts comprehension, the perseverance that the RGS needed but  could not recognize, and the courage not to sacrifice life for fame.  Shackleton  was one of the few men in history who in desperate  circumstances actually improved under the stress; became more resourceful,  more courageous, more obstinate. <br />If Lansing's book left you wide-eyed  and open-mouthed in astonishment this book will compound that, fill in the  social and political context, and completely describe Shacks and all who  came in contact with his whirlwind of adventure, ambition, and  survival.<br />Put this book up on your shelf next to Manchester's Chruchill,  Morris' Fisher, or Rice's	1998-09-21
US	53088317	R175ZB922IT9Q1	0786705442	121686967	Shackleton	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;Great Shack, this is good stuff!&quot;	Huntford's book is the definitive Shackleton. Contemporaries compare  Shackleton to Churchill; in his ability to use language with presence of  personality to entertain, convince and convert listeners into followers. He  couldn't be trusted with women or money but on the ice or at sea many men  trusted him with their lives; repeatedly. He had the ability to make his  dreams yours and make you want to achieve them. You will find here the  leadership that was beyond Scotts comprehension, the perseverance that the  RGS needed but could not recognize, and the courage not to sacrifice life  for fame. Shackleton  was one of the few men in history who in desperate  circumstances actually improved under the stress; became more resourceful,  more courageous, more obstinate. <br />If Lansings book left you wide-eyed and  open-mouthed in astonishment this book will compound that, fill in the  social and political context, and completely describe Shacks and all who  came in contact with his whirlwind of adventure, ambition, and  survival.<br />Put this book up on your shelf next to Manchester's Chruchill,  Morris' Fisher, or Rice's Burton.	1998-09-15
US	53088317	R2J365SNAWDVPL	0140178244	389297184	Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water, Revised Edition	Books	3	28	33	N	N	100 years of 20-20 hindsight	A detailed and accurate catalog of our nations projects, poor, bad and horrible, on the water resources of half a continent. Reisner reports the greed, ignorance and arrogance of government agencies without a  plan nor a policy nor guidance nor responsibility. How would we be living now,  had the COE, USBR or anyone in government had any kind of thoughtful water policy other than dam everything?<br />Few people are going to read this for fun. Researchers, water, hydroelectric and agricultural  pros,  folks with their own article or book in mind, political historians; all these are going to use this as a reference.  Readers of purpose that may check the bibliography first or at least keep going back to it as they notice items in the text.  The problem is that the Penguin edition is missing the bibliography for chapter 8.  You may want to check another edition to make sure you've got the complete package.<br />If you live west of the 100th meridian, drink water and read; the co! ! mplete book should be on your shelf. Put it up next to your copy of J. McPhee's &quot;The Control of Nature&quot;.	1998-07-15
US	53088317	R20VWJ0BVZ0OYV	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	2	0	0	N	N	The movie could be better	Ahoy! Ahoy!    Now hear this! Now hear this!<br />Ready for a true life sea shanty?<br />Follow now our hard living, hard loving, and hard drinking Swordfishermen as they set out to the stormy NorthAtlantic in search of the last remaining and elusive Xiphias gladius.  Watch our intrepid fishermen orchestrate their on-board fax-machines, satellite photos, observation aircraft, and Doppler sonar to locate and catch each remaining individual fish. Witness their women pine and worry  themselves into alcohol lubricated neurosis waiting in port. Marvel at the  Fishermans Co-op aggressive extermination of the species, and equally aggressive search for Federal subsidies.  Sortie with the National Guard Air Sea Rescue (your tax dollars at work) when our heroes are too drunk to find the radio for their hourly report.   <br />&quot;The Perfect  Storm&quot; should have remained a short story.  You can hear the editor enthuse Mr. Junger to &quot;fill it out&quot; with tales of Ninja air-sea rescue types,  their helicopters and satellite communications, and nerdy NOAA types with their  computer models.  But  after our heroes die it is pretty much a Tom Clancy gee-whiz, techo-display.  That's just  what a young author needs to get his first book turned into a &quot;treatment&quot; and that into a  screen-play and that into a monster Christmas movie... and you can select the cast.  <br />It's a fast book. You will read it in one sitting, I am sure that the movie will be just as fast and just as anemic. I see in the reviews that this book is compared many times to  Krakauer's  twin best sellers;  that is to be expected from readers who choose their books strictly off the Newspapers List. In the end it is a book about foul weather.   Those of us interested in shipping and ocean survival  will defer to  the long out of print &quot;Posted Missing&quot; by Alan Villers, detailing big ships in big trouble;  J.McPhee's &quot;Looking for a Ship&quot;, solely for his eerie 4 page account ofall the ships lost in one month worldwide;  and  the ocean survival epic of this century &quot;Endurance&quot; by A. Lansing, 1915. Junger is not even close to any of these writers in subject or skill. <br />Put this book up on your shelf next to Clancy or Crighton.<br />That is all! That is all!	1998-05-26
US	53088317	RAASZ0EO7BD83	0395860288	288711277	A Hall of Mirrors	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Inhale the '60's	Remember when you were kids and the latenight FM played softly in the darkness and candlelight;  and you were so together with your friends that even the cat seemed to sense the community.  Getting loaded brought all of you to hilarity and heavyness in alternating waves and  every thought  made the most perfect sense,  Remember that?<br /> In the morning, your friends were fussing for coffee,  the cat  had peed on the carpet, the FM  was playing news of some new  riot or assassination, the candle had melted onto the table, and there was no humor and certainly no heavyness.<br />Mr. Stone's book is just like that.  Put this book up on the shelf next to your old copys of Rolling Stone.	1998-05-18
US	53088317	R1C3EEPDAA3IEK	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lee Harvey Oswald walks into your living room sits down.	Lee Harvey Oswald walks into your living room sits down and says &quot;Hi, Y'all&quot;.<br />The Assassination, even now after 34 years, has no closure.  Into the information gap run Mr. DeLillo, Mr. Mailer and dozens if not hundreds of writers, film directors, columnist, and TV producers.  The Assassination remains a cottage industry whose customers are the best of us and also the worst of us.<br />Mr. DeLillo's effort has the advantage of all the intervening years of facts and fiction between November 1963 and now;  and he has fashioned a plausible Mr. Oswald and clearly plausible characters surrounding the Southern U.S. in 1963. <br />What you will get here is a Lee Harvey Oswald that is so close that you can smell him, you can also smell agents and low-lifes by the dozens for whom assassination, be it in Haiti, Chile, Cuba or Texas was just another assignment directed by &quot;people of trust&quot;.  Mr. DeLillo  produces an environment that like Le Carre', he shows how an image is reflected by rumor in  a mirror image of a mirror held by a triple agent holding 3 other mirrors. <br />In the end you will comfort yourself in the &quot;fiction&quot; classification of the book, comfort yourself that you have read the &quot;truth&quot;, comfort yourself that DeLillo is just guessing, comfort yourself that DeLillo is exactly right. <br />Put this book up on your shelf right next to your copy of S.Hunter's &quot;Point of Impact&quot;.	1997-12-01
US	53088317	R4VRA39I8ROT9	0140246967	501983138	Touched with Fire: The Land War in the South Pacific	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fanaticism in the Pacific	This book covers in detail the course of the war between Guadacanal and Tarawa; strictly an analysis of combat techniques in the jungle environment. The Australian forces are given a rare forum to explain their contribution to the Pacific conflict; deservedly characterized by the author as &quot;the best land army of the war&quot;. It was the AIF that patented guerrilla warfare, before the American material tsunami, in its most brutal, savage, and murderous aspect. Perhaps it is only the ANZAC's that had the most to loose in a Japanese victory. They clearly fought on the personal and intimate basis of hatred and survival.<br />   This is a rare '90's book that clearly focuses on the Japanese military as a demonic cult of death. That military managed an engine of war that would not accept conditional defeat, and insured the unnecessary deaths of millions of people.  Battle histories are usually one-sided efforts because the loosing side is typically dead; in this conflict the Japanese military was exterminated in total by own their design.  This book contains the recollections of dozens of combat veterans who quickly adapted to a new form of warfare in a punishing environment.<br />Put this book up on your shelf next to your &quot;The Pacific War&quot; by J. Costello or close by W. Manchester's &quot;Goodby Darkness&quot;.	1997-12-01
US	53088317	RQGKCP0FJG4NI	0394717813	421387754	Growth of the Soil	Books	1	4	47	N	N	&quot;Herregud!, There goes Isak on his mule, let's watch!&quot;	This is an odd and depressing book.  Far from Frank Norris or Jack London or Sinclair Lewis or authors intent to describe the homesteading life; there is no manifesto here.  There is no bright definition between the good and evil, nor an epic struggle against the land and climate,  nor a guerrilla war of one class against another.  All the folks here get on rather well considering that two of the three women characters are murders and all of the men are but domesticated farm animals.  More (or less) the book lacks even the basic description that  would link the reader to the land; no colorful seasonal changes,  no waves of migrating birds, no surf on the shore, no  simple enjoyment of the earth as the day begins.  No Steinbeck here. No Barry Lopez, no Ted Morgan.  We have here the novel of the ruminants; grubbing, rutting, and wondering what it is all about.  Put this book up in your medicine cabinet; try to read 20 pages whenever you cannot sleep.	1997-11-30
US	53088317	R3SGJRWXSTL5MM	0395788900	743873218	Confessions of an Igloo Dweller: Memories of the Old Arctic	Books	4	4	4	N	N	&quot;Yes, but is it Art?&quot;	First this is a book about art.  If you have ever wondered how those most beautiful Eskimo sculptures and prints have found their way to your local gallery; this book tells you how. <br /> Mr. Houston was the first artist to recognize and search out the Inuit artforms and   to  deliver them to the art markets  &quot;outside&quot;.   In every detail, name by name, you can read about the  Inuit art culture from the very first  stone figures and bone scluptures, to the  latest prints. <br />Second this is a book about  Arctic.  Adventure on a epic scale.  Mr. Houstons' honeymoon was one of the very few trips from east to west across Baffin Island by sled.  Mr and Mrs. Houston spent  years in the Arctic living in the Inuit way; both their sons spoke  Inuktitut in preference to English and preferred raw seal meat to... well that  was all there was to eat. <br />Sadly there are in this book no prints of  the Inuit art, nor photos of the artists, nor any example of the art described in the text.  For all the journeys by sled, boat, plane, and on foot there  are no suitable maps.  For a book about a culture that is so completely linked to  geography, there are no maps for the reader to follow  nor plates for the art lover to love.  <br />The most astonsihing event of the book occurs on page 9.  A very young Mr. Houston steps off of  a plane in the Hudson's Bay Arctic, looks around,  and flatly refuses to live any place else;  He stays for 15 years.  <br />You can add Mr. Houston to the list with Barry Lopez, William Vollmann , Farley Mowat, and John McPhee;  thoes  writers that get the Arctic Expericence	1997-08-14
US	53088317	R2PQXB6BW6B5NR	0679416099	471508645	Fisher's Face; or,: Getting to Know the Admiral	Books	4	7	9	N	N	&quot;Well, what do 'ya  think of our Jacky now ?&quot;	For those of us who are thoroughly rapt with the Royal  Navy; following Mr. Massies &quot;Dreadnought&quot;, Mr. Manchesters volumes on Churchill, and  Winstons volumes on himself; this book will make  your day. <br />Jan Morris via the wonders of surgery can take magnificently opposite points of view.  In the same paragraph she/he can be the disgruntled fellow officer and a breath later the wife of that same affronted officer, enraptured by the demon Admiral  Fisher;  who has just put her husband down.  Fisher was a man who would destroy many a career without compunction , but in such a way that  the victims would name their first male child after him.  Go figure.  <br />Winston-O-Files will find little here but two characters so similar, so individual, and so revolutionary, that they could have been twins.  <br />Ms. Morris writes this book in the second person taking us into Admiral Fishers quarters on board the &quot;Renown&quot; and letting the effusive and entertaining and somewhat  comedic  Admiral  lead us on a tour of his life.  Morris is clearly in love with Jacky and through attention and  sensitivity writes a gripping and compassionate biography. <br />Wedge this book in next to your  Manchester and Churchill and, oh'ya,  your James Morris	1997-08-11
