US	53087481	R4RHQ877KPKJB	006093316X	259331386	The Great and Secret Show	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very enjoyable read of a fantastic landscape of the mind	This is definitely an interesting book but, then again, that probably depends on what interests you. For Clive Barker fans, the story largely fits into the thematic structures he often puts to writing (notably in works like \\"Weaveworld\\" and \\"Imajica\\"). For those new to Clive Barker, his are books that you have to give a chance. Go along for the ride and realize that if you are confused by what is happening, so often are the main characters. In fact, that is often the point. Everything is not wrapped up into a nice little bundle, certainly not right away. You are given hints. You are given threads of the story along with the characters and, along with them, you will unravel those threads to get at the core elements.<br />The overall story uses fantastical elements (the dream-sea, called Quiddity; loops in time; a mysterious cult that worships something called the Art) but in doing so what the story is really highlighting is the secret lives that people lead and how ephemeral those lives can be, particularly when those lives are based on the superficial and fleeting pleasures (whether that be fame, money, or sex). The events in the book speak to people's deepest fears and their secret desires and how those fuel an odd melange of dreams and nightmares and how those dreams and those nightmares can define who we are and who we become. The ideas in this book flow pretty fast and furious and yet all are logically connected in my opinion. While the concepts are fantastical, the mundane setting they are placed in serves as a wonderful contrast to the events that eventually take place. The ideas behind the Quiddity and the Art that allows access to it may not satisfy fans of more science-fiction novels but, on the other hand, the elements of an odd cult, an ancient enemy and the means by which tears in the fabric of reality can bring those things together are not really in the true horror genre either. So the book sort of straddles a few elements from various literary genresand weaves what I think is a very compelling story.<br />If you decide to give this book a try, understand that you are getting into what is (at the time of writing this review) a two-book series. (The second book is \\"Everville\\" and a third book is ostensibly planned, although there is some debate on that, most notably from the author.) However, do not let that daunt you. The current book actually can stand on its own quite well if you decide to venture no further into Clive Barker's portrait of humanity and what might lie at right angles to reality and just beyond the veil of our dreams.	2003-03-20
US	53087481	RT1S79XFM9BV4	0201794292	351145266	Effective Software Testing: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your Testing	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Excellent reference guide for testers.	A rarity in the testing world, here is a book I can wholeheartedly recommend for your average test practitioner or the QA Manager or QA Lead who feels they might be in over their head or who is not sure if they are missing something in their overall test effort. Having worked in the field of quality assurance and testing for more than ten years, I can say that the author hits on many elements that I often see not practiced in various organizations and that should be. The &quot;Item&quot;-focused nature of the chapters (providing the fifty steps) are a great way to present this material and bring in mind, to this reader, Steve McConnell's &quot;Rapid Development&quot;, which did the same thing for development-related concerns. I had always wondered why the testing field did not have a book like that and now it does.<br />If I had to pick one nitpick (and in the grand scheme of things it is probably a relatively small one), one thing I could probably do without was the use of the word &quot;nonfunctional testing&quot;. That is, unfortunately, a term all too often used in the discipline of testing and it should not be. For example, performance testing in the book is placed under the &quot;nonfunctional&quot; category and yet it is all about functionality: how quickly the functionality performs! The same thing with security: this is about how secure the application/site functions! (In other words, how secure the functionality is.) So this term is, I feel, incorrectly applied and as such will be used by more and more testers and this is often the stumbling block because usage of the term &quot;non-functional&quot; really often covers up what are, in effect, quality requirements and cost constraints. With that said, however, the material under the section on non-functional testing is well laid-out and is accurate in every respect, as far as I was concerned.<br />The breakdown of the book in terms of chapters and then items within the chapters is right on the money. And some of the items are wonderful kernels of knowledge that all testers should keep in mind. For example, Item 17 is &quot;Verify that the System Supports Testability&quot;. This is a key concept that way too many testers seem to forget about early on and then have to deal with the ramifications of explaining why they cannot adequately test something later on. Yet another excellent element is Item 22, &quot;Derive Effective Test Cases from Requirements&quot;. My immediate thought is: okay, but what if there are no requirements? Well, the author covers that very point in an excellent manner. In fact that is what all the items do: they provide a solid reference point for a variety of topics that can be researched by the conscientious tester or analyst. This book is a distillation of a broad array of concepts, from requirements analysis to automated testing tools to evaluating how effective a tester is. This wide scope will, I think, give the book a broad appeal and it serves to make it clear that there is quite a bit going on in the world of testing.<br />Overall, I think this is an excellent reference book for the average test group within an organization and is certainly worth having in your library if you in any way deal with the world of quality assurance or quality testing. It is rare that I give any book five stars (much less a testing book) but this one deserves it. Will you be an effective tester with this book? That all depends on how you apply what it talks about. But I can almost guarantee you will be an ineffective tester if you do not take much of what this book has to say seriously. Highly recommended.	2003-01-13
US	53087481	R1IEGAELZY2G2V	1931412758	270456905	The Hiram Key: Pharaohs, Freemasons and the Discovery of the Secret Scrolls of Jesus	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Entertaining but factual basis is difficult to determine	The idea behind this book is to see if there is any truth that the Freemason movement stretches back farther into the past than its stated beginnings in the sixteenth/seventeenth centuries. Specifically the idea is to tie some elements of Freemasonry into the practices of the Essenes and the Jews who, in turn, derived those practices from the Egyptians. I did like the overall writing style - somewhat conversational so as to keep you involved.<br />While one may or may not doubt that the authors have, in fact, done their research, in many places they simply skip over a great deal of what that research was thus making many chapters seem like they lead to conclusions based only on a few assumptions. This may not be the case but it is hard to tell. There is also not a bibliography and, while they do cite some of their sources in the main text, it is obvious that not all of their research could have come from the few sources they mention. If, in fact, I am wrong and the footnotes do comprise all of their sources, then the authors use very few sources so one does not know if they simply chose sources that agreed with their viewpoints.<br />In the end, I was not entirely convinced of the match-ups between Mason/Freemason thought and the early Egyptian thought (such as the practice of Ma'at). In a lot of cases I can see the kernels of thought of Masons/Freemasons as having just been a logical continuation of pre-existing thought, much as Arcadian traditions seemed to have given rise to Rosicrucian thought, for example. Overall, I think the authors were on stronger ground finding links between the Essenes/Nasoreans and Masonry than they were when trying to forge the same kind of links between Egyptian thought and Masonic thought. However, there are enough tantalizing hints that I can see the benefit of the research. As an example with the Egyptians, the authors point out that many of the rituals and degrees of the Masons could not have just been copied down after the fact because Egyptian texts could not read until the discovery of the Rosetta Stone, which occurred after the founding of the Grand Lodge. What the authors do not state, however, is proof that the rituals existed in the same form from the Grand Lodge until now. In other words, perhaps the rituals were added to or changed over time to match the findings of things (like the translations derived after the finding of the Rosetta Stone). To me, a very prudent thing to have done would have been to offer proof that the rituals that are described as matching some ancient Egyptian rituals were in existence, in the exact same form, before the Rosetta Stone finding.<br />A good example of some assuming that the authors do (on page 179): \\"As we have already shown, the circumstances of Joseph described in the Bible indicates that he was vizier to the Hyksos king Apophis and so it is very likely that he would have been involved in the plot to extract secrets from Seqenenre.\\" Now, the circumstances that the authors dictate here do not necessarily indicate that Joseph was the Vizier to this king. It might be a possibility but it is by no means necessarily indicative of the true situation. The authors had not really proven there was a plot to extract secrets thus saying Joseph was \\"likely\\" to have been \\"involved in the plot\\" is a little sanguine and assumes the validity of what they are trying to prove in the first place. Also, the story they concoct to build up who Hiram Abif was makes sense in one way, but their attempts to fit Joseph in, while telling a nice story, are not extant in history and thus for all practical purposes, unprovable.<br />Another good example: the authors also talk about a \\"secret order of initiates\\" in the Egyptian high court that helped the kings with the death-and-rebirth ritual. Yet, they claim that when just one of these kings was murdered the secret was lost for good. Would not this secret order of initiates have still known the secret since they performed itfor the king? The authors do contrive a story about only three people might have known and how the other two were killed - but that, as they readily admit, is just their own story based on Masonic legend. Thus it does not constitute proof. The authors also claim that priests told Kamose that a new king-making ritual had to be created - but it was no longer for kings, just pharaohs. I could easily see a priest (or group of priests) doing this in an attempt to put the best light on a bad situation but then why not further assume that these priests would just claim that the practices were not lost - but were in fact maintained. The authors do not explain this - which I think is a key point. In other words, the priests, who had a monopoly on the king-making rituals anyway, certainly did not have to worry future kings about their ascent to the stars. They could have just claimed that the secret was not lost after all (even though, in reality, they did substitute a new ritual).<br />All in all, I think the authors make some assumptions at some critical points thus rendering their hypothesis interesting - but certainly not proven. The book is a persuasion book - persuading you to a certain viewpoint. Was I persuaded? Not necessarily in all respects but the book certainly persuaded me to investigate the claims of the book more. I had to stick with three stars, however, because of the nature of how the book made its case.	2003-01-07
US	53087481	R1Y6BDAJIG2B8L	0446610275	348667613	The Confederation Handbook	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Delivers what it promises, but nothing really new...	Here is one book that I am divided on. On the one hand, I can hardly claim to be disappointed since the book delivers exactly what is described. On the other hand, I am a little disappointed due to the nature of the book itself. The first thing to understand is that this is not a book of stories revolving around the &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; trilogy and its Future History. Rather this is basically a compendium of the people, technology, cultures, etc. of that Future History in a condensed format. That being said, all of this is available in the trilogy itself somewhere. It is not in the condensed format, granted, but it is in there. That, of course, is to be expected. However, there is really nothing extra that makes this book all that compelling of a buy. I am sure there are a few extra details here and the degree of satisfaction you will feel with those few extra details will depend entirely upon just how deeply you want to get into the Future History.<br />If you are a person that has trouble getting into &quot;space opera&quot; type stories where there are many characters, cultures, and technologies, this book might help you make sense of it all beforehand rather than learning it piece-meal via reading through the &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; trilogy of books. However, if you are not that sort of person my guess is you will feel that you wasted your money. (Note: I am not saying you will feel cheated. As I said, the book gives what it promises.) I gave this three stars because it is an excellent compendium to the &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; trilogy but I kept the last two stars simply because nothing extra was really added for those fans who might have wanted a little more. If I had to make recommendations, I would say avoid this one and read the trilogy or &quot;A Second Chance at Eden&quot; (which is a collection of short stories and novellas dealing with the Future History).	2002-11-13
US	53087481	R2QYDG6FMH0N7U	0446606715	149103888	A Second Chance at Eden	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good supplement to &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; trilogy	This book is basically a supplementary text to the well-known &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; trilogy of books. Unlike &quot;The Confederation Handbook&quot;, this book is actually a series of stories rather than just a set of facts and figures detailing the Future History that Hamilton has established. Many of the stories here are pretty weak on their own but they do fit into the overall history and what they serve to do is provide a backdrop for the technology of the Future History at various points within it. In most cases it is very hard to get into the characters per se but rather you just come to understand the future, the technology it holds, and maybe a little of the various political undercurrents that exist. The two most fleshed out stories are probably &quot;A Second Chance at Eden&quot; (from which the book derives its title) and &quot;Escape Route&quot;. Here you have longer stories with characters that you can identify with and care about to a greater extent than the other stories while also learning quite a bit about the future.<br />All in all, I recommend the book whether you have already read &quot;Night's Dawn&quot; (although do not expect the same depth and detail) or before you have read &quot;Night's Dawn&quot;) to provide a little background and ease you into the technology concepts that Hamilton puts forth. I give it five stars simply because it really does not detract from the series itself and it certainly does add to it in terms of providing different viewpoints into the future that Hamilton has created.	2002-11-10
US	53087481	R3EZ5YVRMSZEDP	0830819290	999464694	Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law & Education	Books	4	10	16	N	N	Well written but missing a full argument...	This book is sometimes overtly and sometimes subtly a polemic regarding the potential consequences we face as individuals and as a society if we reject, out of hand, Christian theism and just allow ourselves to be swayed by naturalism. I think Johnson makes a lot of good points about how terms are often used to exclude other areas of research by the very definition of the term. However, I often think Johnson takes this too far. What it all really boils down to is quite simple: those who make positive claims (whether in &quot;science&quot; or &quot;religion&quot;) have the onus of proof on them. What Johnson tries to do is skirt this issue by refuting some the overall concept of evolution without saying the whole thing is wrong. While he often says the alternative is Christian theism (or divine creation), he very rarely makes positive assertions for that (which would put the onus on him). What if often boils down to is: if a supernatural Creator exists, this Creator might have chosen to do some creating. This Creator may have designed things. Yes, *if* that supernatural Creator exists, these are, I suppose, possibilities. But what is the methodology for determining that? Obviously Johnson says it cannot be &quot;methodological naturalism&quot;. Fine. So how should one determine the viability of the hypothesis? On that point Johnson is quite silent. And that is a pity because it would go some way towards making his case.<br />As in Darwin on Trial, Johnson often states that he is not advocating an alternative claim necessarily but rather just showing how the current theory of origins is lacking; however, Johnson is certainly touting the idea of a Creator within the context of Christian theism. So he actually *is* proposing an alternative. Johnson says of himself (on page 49): &quot;I am convinced that God is objectively real, not merely a concept or fantasy in my own mind.&quot; That is fine and usually the backbone on which alternatives to &quot;naturalism&quot; arebased. Johnson argues that, to a certain extent, his statement &quot;God is a fact&quot; is like the statement &quot;evolution is a fact&quot;. But that seems a little disingenuous. After all, many people point out that evolution, in sum total, is not a completely factual account because there is some evidence that the theory does not account for. But Johnson does not provide *any* evidence at all for &quot;God is a fact&quot;. He says *some* of evolution is demonstrably true but the overall concept is lacking. But not even *some* of God being a fact has been objectively demonstrable, much less *all* of it, at least that I have seen in Johnson's writings. So by that logic even if some of evolution is not true, it does not automatically suggest divine creation. What we need for things to have an objective reality (and Johnson notes this) is an empirical basis, presentation of hypotheses, making falsfiable predictions relative to those hypotheses, and suggesting some sort of research or experimentative agenda. I would be happy to hear Johnson's view of all this regarding his statement of God being an objective fact, whether in contrast to evolution or not.<br />Johnson might also want to ask why *if* evolution is wrong, the alternative would necessarily be Christian theism. Why not some form of polytheism? Or why not another naturalistic theory? Or why not aliens seeding the planet? In other words, is Christian theism (or divine creation) a fait accompli if evolution has gaps? Can the evidence of biology potentially support a creationist viewpoint? If so, how? That would go a long way towards making it seem a viable alternative in some sense which is what Johnson's aim appears to be. Is the notion of divine creation falsifiable in some sense? If so, how? That would go some way towards utilizing some of the elements of science that Johnson claims he does not want to dismiss.<br />Rather than worry about terms like &quot;atheist materialists&quot;, &quot;agnostic naturalists&quot;, or &quot;theistic evolutionists&quot; as he does, I think Johnson is on much surer ground when he talks about the metaphysical assumptions or predispositions of science and the issue of allowing various elements of creationism to have a fair hearing. There is a lot of logic in what he says regarding these issues because it is true that heuristic assumptions in science can become fact by fiat rather than by empirical corroboration. It is also certainly true that the treatment of religious topics in schools and other areas has been contradictory in various legal cases. I definitely recommend this book (and I speak as an atheist) because Johnson does present his points well and he is a good writer. But I think one should also be careful to look for the shortcomings in Johnson's own arguments (or lack thereof). He is very good with words and, as such, it allows him a certain dexterity in skipping over a few points here and there that really should be addressed if he truly wants to convince his readers.	2002-11-10
US	53087481	R25J9OYT3OC3KE	0060675209	850704052	This Hebrew Lord	Books	5	62	66	N	N	Excellent book with a somewhat unique view on Jesus	I will say right off that I write this review pretty much as an atheist. I certainly do not believe in much of what the Christian Scriptures have to say regarding miracles. I want to get that out so that any bias I have might be obvious.<br />That said, I think this is an excellent book. Spong writes very well, in a conversational and engaging style. You never feel you are being preached to and you have no doubt at all of this man's intelligence in his writing. Regarding the book, it seems to be showing you Spong's view of Jesus that he has come to accept in order to be an intellectually fulfilled person in this day and age and yet still be a spiritual one. Is this a redefinition of Jesus? To many, that is how it will be perceived. I think to Spong he feels that his view of Jesus is one that actually gets back to what Jesus represented and how the early writers (such as the Gospel writers) were actually representing him. To that end, I would say that Spong does a great job convincing me of the veracity of his vision in the sense that he presents a wonderful life philosophy. The book would do nothing to convince me to believe in the veracity of Jesus, per se, except in so far that one might call this life philosophy by &quot;the Christ&quot;. Spong manages to do this, in some fashion, without believing in all the miracle stories of the Bible. At least I feel this to be the case. After reading the book I am not exactly sure where Spong stands on all the issues regarding Jesus' life (he refers you to his later books, which I will definitely read now) but I get the impression that he seems to feel Jesus was certainly more man than some sort of incarnation of the Hebrew Yahweh.<br />Regarding the book content itself, I like the idea of seeing Jesus through Hebrew eyes. I think that really was a mainstay of the book because you always have to look at people from the past in terms of what they represented in their cultural milieu. Spong makes a good case about the gospel writers (some of them, anyway) being influenced by Second Isaiah. That was interesting to me as I had never considered that. However, for myself, I disagreed (tentatively) with some of Spong's conclusions regarding how the gospel writers wrote. His interpretation of that, however, is definitely a good one and worthy of study. For myself, I do not think the gospel writers were as sophisticated as Spong seems to give them credit for but, then again, he does at least present the tendrils of a good case in that regard. I also do not feel that this book takes into account some of the notions that Jesus was part of the Zealots, which would undermine some of what Spong has to say.<br />However, one has to remember that this book is not meant to be a treatise on scholarship regarding the actual life of Jesus. So if one expects it to succeed in that realm, one would be missing the point of the book. The book is the story of how one man has looked at a definition of Jesus that he believes is relevant to the twentieth and twenty-first century. I highly recommend this book, particularly to those like myself who have little faith in religion. This book will probably not make you a believer but it will make you realize that it is possible to be very intellectual, very engaging, very articulate, as well as being very spiritual. I think that even if you abstract out the religious elements of Spong's book, the main theme still holds together. That is quite an accomplishment and makes it, in my opinion, well worth the read.	2002-03-26
US	53087481	R3GLQHGGZTGI7Z	0201719363	189028702	Quality Web Systems: Performance, Security, and Usability	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent book on various quality topics	This book was a joy to read. It gives a great overview of quality issues within &quot;Web systems&quot; - meaning Web applications and architectures. The book balances a too-specific look with a too-general look and succeeds quite well in a balanced treatment that will make the whole worth the attention of any quality assurance or quality tester professional in the Information Technology industry.<br />In particular, the second chapter, on the RSI Approach, is a nice addition as this is something that most practitioners of quality subjects will not find elsewhere and the general subject matter is generally that which is avoided in books of this type. Another topic often avoided in these books is that of usability and accessibility concerns and yet these are covered here in good detail chapter six.<br />In general, I think the book offered a great amount of detail just where it was needed and gave a lot of &quot;mini best-practices&quot; in each chapter with the use of bulleted lists to highlight specific points. The detail of the book extends to various topics, like performance, compatibility, usability, and security - all topics that are of high concern in the current world of making qualitly Web systems that customers and user respond to. The appendices in the book are also excellent. The &quot;Test Tool Evaluations&quot; section will be a welcome addition to those who wish there are more concise evaluation forms for automated tool solutions.<br />I highly recommend this book to quality assurance/testing professionals, quality assurance managers, and even those who work more in the project management and development spheres. Those latter will get benefit from the book because the book manages to highlight topics of concern to both groups and also gives them insight into the quality aspects of the projects and products that are developed within an organization.	2001-11-19
US	53087481	REKPG7W780R9L	0195087259	655888205	Seven Theories of Religion	Books	4	25	29	N	N	A good summary of religious thought.	This book was definitely a good summary of the thoughts of eight main historical figures (with a few others thrown in here and there). However, in many cases, the summaries were not so much about religion, but rather mythologies that sometimes masquerade as religion, at least in some people's opinions. For example, the ideas of Mircea Eliade, to me, are simply mythologies and barely constitute the basis of a veritable religion (and are pretty boring reading, to boot). And Karl Marx's ideas are so stepped in the socioeconomic realm that one cannot really call his work a &quot;theory&quot; of religion. On the other hand, the interesting work of Freud and Durkheim are specifically related to the subject of religion and are good additions to the book.<br />Thus, for me, this book is sort of a smattering of material that is worthwhile and entertaining reading - but may not be living up to the title of the book. As just one example, there is actually no discussion of the major thinkers who have put forward cognitive and biological hypotheses (for they are not &quot;theories&quot;) of religion. (The section on Freud does not really count towards this because his work was not so much cognitive, as psychoanalytic.) Thus, for me, this book did not really discuss theories of religion, per se, but theories of various aspects of what some might call religion and others might call folklore, legend, or mythology.<br />This is a worthwhile book because you get a condensed view of the thoughts of many notable thinkers from wide ranges of disciplines (such as anthropology, sociology, etc.) but keep in mind that these are not &quot;theories&quot; of religion. They are, if anything, hypotheses and they are, if nothing else, only about relative aspects of various belief systems. If you are more concerned about the origins of religion (and thus a true &quot;theory&quot;) I recommend a book like Pascal Boyer's &quot;Religion Explained&quot; or the books by Michael Shermer, such as &quot;How We Believe.&quot;<br />Another problem I had with the book were the footnotes. Sometimes they contained just references and other times they contained material worth reading. In all cases, the &quot;material worth reading&quot; was short enough that it should have been placed in the main text. The constant shifting back and forth in this book made it a slower (and less entertaining) read for me than it probably otherwise would have been.<br />Overall, however, I think this was a well-researched book and contains a lot of good material. It just did not really cover the aspects of religion that I was hoping for.	2001-09-12
US	53087481	RXPVEBI5RIR2I	0735710465	386619818	Dreamweaver 4 Magic	Books	3	24	37	N	N	Really good book ... but lacking a few things	Based on other reviews here, I am really bucking the trend as far as the rating. That is because I am really divided on this book. On the one hand, it is visually appealing. The examples are well presented with appropriate screen shots. On the other hand, the nature of the Dreamweaver tool makes some of the examples cumbersome. After going through the examples, I realized I could have written the same tutorial for a text-type editor, like HomeSite, without half the caveats. (Of course, my tutorials would have been longer but they probably would have also been a little more concise.)<br />Part of my problem (and here is a bias) with tools like Dreamweaver is that they do not force someone to really learn the underlying code (in the case of JavaScript) or markup (in the case of CSS or HTML). Granted, you can look at this by going to the code view but Dreamweaver does not encourage this and neither does this book by presenting everything in easy to handle extensions. This may seem an odd complaint and I am sure that I am pretty much alone in voicing it but I much prefer to type in markup and/or code directly and get my hands dirty so that I understand the logic. (I cannot count how many times I have had to interview someone who knew how to do something in GoLive!, FrontPage, or Dreamweaver - but only visually. They had no idea how to actually type in all the markup+logic because they simply never bothered to look and figure it out.)<br />Having said that, the tutorials in this book are excellent and that is mainly because they are all cross-browser compatible. However, in reality, the projects/tutorials only skim the surface of what you can do. For example, the first project - the CSS Cookie Monster - does not really cover automatically increasing font sizes at the users' behest without changing the theme or even reloading the page. (This can be done by using the DOM and can degrade gracefully for older browers.) The project also does not show you how to allow the userto keep the same theme but just change the font type or font size dynamically. (Consider the &quot;Blogger Template&quot; available at Glish for a contrasting example. However, you also have to consider that the &quot;Blogger Template&quot; is not as cross-browser compatible as the projects in this book.)<br />One complaint for me is that the book, while providing good and interesting examples that are visually appealing, falls short of making sure that strict usability and accessibility guidelines are followed at all times. Granted, this was not the authors' intention but it is something that would-be designers will have to watch out for. (And, in my experience, most do not.) As just one example, the authors rely on tables for layout a lot and yet one of the usability goals of CSS (as stated in the W3C WAI guidelines) is to stop doing that! The point is that CSS should be used for the layout. The authors, however, have a good reason: they wanted cross-compatibility with as many browsers as possible. A valid goal although one that is in contradistinction to the &quot;Browser Upgrade Project&quot; that is very necessary in the world of the Web, particularly as we get into new types of browsing mechanisms (PDAs, cell phones, WebTV, etc.) and accessibility laws (such as the 508 guidelines and the need for compliance with screen readers for the disabled). It is great to talk about cool (and even functionally cool) Web design - but you also have to talk about usable and accessible Web design, particularly since the latter is now law in the United States.<br />The CD that comes with the book is more to inflate the price of the book because it mainly offers the site assets (such as PNG files) and the extensions the authors have written to make your life easier. These are, of course, great things and necessary if you want to follow the strict examples. But a little cost could have been saved for the reader by making these downloadable via a Web site and just charging for the book proper. This would have been hard to do, however, because the authors do not show you the actual code in their book - they want you to use their extensions. And, again, they are very helpful extensions. Until you want to do the same stuff outside of Dreamweaver. On the plus side, the examples in the book are very easy to follow even if you are not an experienced Dreamweaver user. I had no trouble at all going through each of the projects.<br />It probably sounds like I am overly badmouthing the book for reasons that, to many designers, will seem silly or spurious. The book really is quite good, particularly if you are a Dreamweaver fan and prefer that tool over more text-based tools (like HomeSite or AceHTML), but I had to leave it with three stars because I felt that, for the money spent, I was left a little disappointed when all was said and done. I just felt that there was not quite enough there. What was there was good, but also somewhat limited for the price of the book.	2001-09-03
US	53087481	RSSPZRVJA2CJR	0425178595	195759214	Devil's Sea (Atlantis)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Interesting read ... but same old stuff.	This book is the third part of a series, &quot;Atlantis&quot; and &quot;Atlantis: Bermuda's Triangle&quot; being the other two of the series. In the last book the &quot;Shadow&quot; (read: the creepy aliens) attacked the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. This time it wants the Pacific Rim. That alone is a farily unique take on the idea of aliens of some sort trying to take us over.<br />You would think that this combined with the idea that the book starts out by taking us from the eruption of Thera, to Ameila Earhart's flight, to the Chernobyl disaster would make for a pretty good book. And I guess, in some ways, it does. In fact, of all the books I have to say that this one is probably the best if only because Donegan seems to have hit his stride. In my reviews of the last two books I pointed out how some of the history was wrong as was the physics, at least as it was stated. In this book there was very little of that problem - everything actually made sense. (The only problem is that, like in the last book, everyone in every time period talks exactly the same. There is no attempt to match the dialogue type to the period of time. There was some bad science such as some details of nuclear reactors and the idea of how dolphins evolved.<br />Story-wise, this book is a logical progression of the first two and, in that sense, it remains true to form. I must say that in this book the skipping around between past and present made it very hard to want to concentrate on one particular time period. One odd thing that is not covered as well is what the rest of the world is doing while this Shadow destroys much of the planet. (In this author's other series, &quot;Area 51,&quot; written under the name Robert Doherty, the existence of the aliens is revealed to the world at large and you know how it comes about. In this series that element is just sort of tacked on.) Also, the one thing I have said about all the books (and I think it holds for this one) is that the fantasy elements just do notwork well with the more traditional science-fiction elements. Basically, the author is describing his book as a &quot;military thriller&quot; and, coupled with the science-fiction, that works. However, the fantasy elements (like Valkyries, seven-headed snakes, ley lines, crystal skulls, etc.) just do not fit at all. (For me, it would be like if mention is a made of a Star Destroyer or a warp drive in J.R.R. Tolkien's books.)<br />I give it a three star rating because it does have some unique elements to the genre and the endings of the books are always fast-paced affairs. However, I have to say that there is also the problem (at least for me) that Donegan has really not explained anything about the &quot;Shadow&quot; or the &quot;Ones Before.&quot; This makes it Book Three and we still really have no clue. That is a long time to leave your readers hanging. Mystery and suspense is one thing, but never getting to the meat of the story is another. There is supposed to be a fourth book in the series. I sincerely hope that the fourth one is the last one because I feel that this story has overplayed itself.	2001-08-30
US	53087481	R20C3ZVTLFUVRO	0312214847	931127699	Key to the Sacred Pattern: The Untold Story of Rennes-le-Chateau	Books	2	60	70	N	N	Nothing really new here ....	In a lot of ways this book is really Henry Lincoln responding to the BBC2 television programme &quot;History of a Mystery&quot; which did much to disprove not only his own book (&quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot;) but the derivative work &quot;Tomb of God.&quot; This is also Lincoln's way to distance himself (only slightly, however) from the Priory of Sion story (which has very much been proven to be a hoax) and stick more with the geometry aspects of the story (which were really investigated first by David Wood in 1985).<br />This book is basically just Henry Lincoln setting down the events of his creation of the BBC &quot;Chronicle&quot; programs in the 1970s that opened up the alleged mystery of Rennes-le-Chateau to the European community. He wants to show the path he took to allow people to see that he was not &quot;duped&quot; as he has often been accused of and that the path he followed was logical. To a certain extent, it probably was logical. However, what Lincoln fails to acknowledge in this book (and all his other books) is that Jean Luc-Chaumeil, who does get mention in &quot;Sacred Pattern,&quot; basically &quot;ratted out&quot; Pierre Plantard and the alleged Priory of Sion. Chaumeil's work has shown that the Priory was nothing more than a hoax that was started up by Pierre Plantard, who really was in a group of the same name that was started in 1956 by Andre Bonhomme. Thus, Lincoln was &quot;duped.&quot; As was Gerard de Sede before him. He fell for the hoax, realized it, and then tried to latch on to another element of the &quot;mystery&quot; that seemed to have more promise and did not involve a &quot;secret society.&quot; Lincoln also never mentions the massive contributions to the &quot;mystery&quot; by Jacques Riviere, Pierre Jarnac, and Rene Descadeillas. (He does briefly mention Descadeillas but then dismisses him without any explanation.) He also does not mention that he was presented with evidence from Jean Luc-Chaumeil before the publicationof &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; that showed the Priory of Sion was a hoax and that he ignored. Lincoln, in his more recent research, has only concentrated on the alleged geometric aspects of the so-called mystery and he has given up trying to promote the Priory of Sion. That is basically what this book is about: setting up his new element of mystery, the alleged odd geometry. (He also did this because his 1991 &quot;The Holy Place&quot; is largely out of print and thus many of his fans were not aware of the extent of his work in this regard.<br />All in all, this is a relatively okay book if you want to try to get a very chronological fashion of how certain events happened during the course of the research, which is important to determine the veracity of an independent researcher like Lincoln. However, there is absolutely nothing new in this book that you could not read in &quot;The Holy Place&quot; or in the books that were co-authored with Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh. I would definitely not recommend this book unless you feel you just have to read everything on the story or you feel you need a &quot;blow-by-blow&quot; account, as it were, of Lincoln's research pattern.	2001-08-29
US	53087481	R2372C7NBL9OSC	0440223784	242650467	Area 51: The Reply	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good sequel - but same old stuff...	This book is a sequel to the aptly named &quot;Area 51.&quot; The basic theme and much of the characters follow from that book into this second outing. I was not a huge fan of the first book simply because there was nothing new in the book as far as the &quot;aliens among us&quot; theme. This is somewhat true of the sequel but the overall mystery takes on some new dimensions in this sequel that I found interesting and fun to read. One of the more interesting elements is that this sequel opens up with Majestic 12 and the events at Area 51 having been exposed to the public at large. A new group has been formed: the United Nations Alien Oversight Committee (UNAOC). (This is not giving anything away as this pretty much happened right at the end of the first book.) This is a pretty clever way to do things because most such books always have the aliens being in complete secret or rely on the shadowy machinations of shadow governments. (Of course, there are a few elements of those things in the book as well.)<br />Other than that, this book is pretty much a direct continuation of the first book, populated with the same characters trying to discover just who the Airlia were and what they wanted. One thing I could have done without in this book is the Mars stuff. That Cydonia material has been done to death. Not only that but the new images from Mars have finally put rest to that story of a face on Mars (unless, of course, you are a conspiracy theorist or not one to believe in facts). However I will say that the way the material was worked into the story was at least moderately clever and it did fit with the general theme. <br />Definitely recommended to &quot;aliens among us&quot; fans or those who loved &quot;Area 51.&quot; Also recommended to those who do not really believe all this stuff but are willing to suspend disbelief for what is a pretty decent read overall. I will say that this is a fast-paced book mainly because you can skip all of the character-building since that was done in the first book and something that (in my opinion) Robert Doherty is not all that good at or even consistent with - at least in these books. For example, there is one character in this book (Kelly Reynolds) who is so far out of touch with her characterization in the first book that it was hard to believe. (On the other hand, perhaps that is explained in Part Three?) His characters are, to me, fairly stereotypical of this genre (and a few other genres as well) and are flat throughout. This book compensates for that by keeping things moving at a fairly good clip and throwing in a few surprises along the way so that you really do not care that the characters are cardboard. As you near the end, the rapid shifts in scene (from submarines, to planes, to land incursions, etc.) all work very well and really keep you reading to see how it all turns out.<br />All in all: a pretty good sequel. (In fact, I think the sequel was much better than the original.) I still had to give it three stars, however, simply because this theme has been done over and over and this series really adds nothing new to it.	2001-08-23
US	53087481	R1BZ6ASQ32QE4C	0060926775	889646352	Turin Shroud: In Whose Image? the Truth Behind the Centuries-Long Conspiracy of Silence	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Entertaining read, interesting hypothesis	This book purports to put forth what the authors consider is a completely new twist on the Turin Shroud. Unfortunately this is yet another book where we are dealing with a relatively \\"anonymous informant.\\" Here the anonymous informant is a man named \\"Giovanni.\\" It should be granted that this reliance on an anonymous source  does nothing, a priori, to disprove the hypothesis put forth in the book but it certainly does give one pause.<br />So what does this \\"informant\\" have to do with the Turin Shroud? Well, this man apparently provides the authors with the information that Leonardo was heavily involved in the occult, was the \\"Grand Master\\" of a secret society and was responsible for the Turin Shroud. Not only was Leonardo responsible for creating the Shroud, the mysterious \\"Giovanni\\" said that Leonardo used a type of photographic technique - one that had not come to light since Leonardo employed it.<br />The key to science is repeatability of results. The authors go into a little detail about their own three-dimensional work with the Shroud images via the work of a man named Andy Haveland-Robinson, a consultant in computer graphics operations. This is important because they claim that their findings show a lack of three-dimensional information, in direct contrast to the VP-8 studies done earlier. (It can be said, however, that the original work with the VP-8 is highly suspect.) Nevertheless, we really have nothing to go on except their chapter eight which explains the basics behind their techniques.<br />One key element is: would Leonardo have had the necessary materials available to him for this venture? We have to consider that by history as we know it, any photographic technique at all was more than three hundred years in the future. The authors say that the materials he would have needed would have been available. However, the authors, in attempting to recreate the work of Leonardo that they believe he did, did not use only materials that existed at his time. (Inother words, they did use materials that only came into use after Leonardo's time.) As they freely admit, they had to make some concessions. This, no matter how small the concession, calls into question their hypothesis. They do say that it is possible that history is wrong as to when some of those materials came into use and it must be admitted that it is not impossible that Leonardo could have made use of them - but, in any event, that does not make for an air-tight hypothesis. Certainly not as air-tight as the authors routinely claim through the course of the book.<br />Beyond that, why was the process never revealed by Leonardo, revealed by someone else, or even just discovered by someone else? We know that Leonardo was very secretive in general and he was accused of sorcery at one point in his life. But this does not necessarily show why someone else might not have developed it. Or why the technique has not appeared in any of Leonardo's notebooks that have been found (and, granted, many have been lost). Again: not disproofs of the hypothesis - just more wiggle-room for questioning.<br />The authors claim that Leonardo may have viewed photography as part of his \\"magical\\" and \\"hermetical\\" practices. The authors state that \\"it is likely that Leonardo himself would have regarded basic photography as something magical.\\" I am not so sure of that. Even if such studies were considered magical in some fashion, that does not mean Leonardo would have looked at them that way. It is known that Leonardo had good ideas about how the human eye works, mainly from dissecting the eyes, that were certainly not magical. In fact, he seems to have equated light with a wave that had a definite speed. We also know he was fascinated with the investigation of lenses and mirrors, as well as light in general. It later came to light that Leonardo had invented one of the first photometers (for measuring the brightness of an object) as well as drawing up the design for a camera obscura, which he publicly showed during his lifetime. (The authors do mention most of this and yet they still seem to think that Leonardo would have only placed photographic-like processes in the realm of magic.) This is not to say, however, that Leonardo was not accussed of magic - or, actually, of sorcery. The Church also took a fairly dim view of these proceedings and thus it would have been wise to keep some of this research under wraps.<br />The authors believe that the Shroud is a composite image. As they say: \\"We believe that it is composed of three images - the face, the body from the neck down at the front, and all of the head and back.\\" Furthermore, they believe that the face image is, in fact, that of Leonardo da Vinci. This is partly based on evidence that the authors feel they adduced regarding that the face on the image is a \\"bad fit\\" in the sense that it apepars to be too small in relation to the body. There is also the idea that in all images of the Shroud, there is a very distinctive cut off between the upper torso and the head. In other words, the neck is completely missing. However there are vastly in the minority on this part of their hypothesis. Does that make it wrong? Of course not, but the authors really do not go into other people's hypotheses all that much as to why the image is not composite.<br />The book was meant to persuade. After reading it, I cannot say that I was completely persuaded. However, I can say that I was intrigued. The authors presented their case well and I would certainly like to do further investigation into this matter. I think the authors make a few assumptions along the way but I found nothing that I found was just totally unrealistic in terms of their assumptions, just perhaps a little hopeful. They are on much less stable ground with their alleged informant and the Priory of Sion - particularly because the Priory of Sion has all but been completely discredited in scholarly circles, recognized for the hoax it was. Since this isnot a fundamental part of their book (when you get into their hypothesis), it does not detract overly much from the book. Overall: it is a good book that is well written and paced and gives some good information about the history of the Shroud (albeit, some selective history) and some of the research done with it. I would recommend you read it - but also read other books about this subject so as to get a more balanced viewpoint.	2001-08-21
US	53087481	R12DJYC0Y4TUSD	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced read, good build-up to Episode 1	Think of the &quot;Terminator 2&quot; movie and you will have the basic plot line here: a practically unstoppable force is trying to kill people and will not be swayed from his mission. He cannot be reasoned with. He feels no fear, pity, or remorse. Having made the comparison to an action movie, I should make it clear that this is in no way a complaint about the book.<br />The story is basically a precursor to &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; that tells how the plans of Darth Sidious are in danger of being unraveled before they even come to fruition. He sends Darth Maul to clean up the mess which, through the course of the book, becomes an even bigger mess. This is essentially a pursuit story through the grimy underworld of Coruscant. The book is filled with a very dark atmosphere and setting and this works well given the overall storyline. You also get quite a few scenes of Darth Maul in action which was certainly interesting to read and you got a lot more insight into what &quot;makes him tick.&quot;<br />What usually hampers stories like this one is that the conclusion is foregone. You already know what must have happened because we have already seen the after-effects (in the &quot;Episode 1&quot; movie). However, that does not really slow the pace of events in the book at all nor detract from the book because, as I stated before, the book is really a story of pursuit so your focus is on how Darth Maul is pursuing and what those who oppose him are doing to not get caught. It makes for a fast-paced read and an enjoyable romp through the Star Wars universe. There are also a few side stories that keep you entertained. By the time you get to the conclusion that you knew was coming, you will probably find you have really enjoyed the book.<br />The one thing that struck me as kind of silly (and this will give nothing important away): the whole point of this was that Darth Sidious did not want the blockade on Naboo to be known about prior to its occurrence. And, more importantly, the role of the Sith could not be disclosed. However, as we all know from Episode 1 the existence of the Sith was exposed quite quickly. Not only that, at the end of this book the trade blockade happens (as we knew it would; I am giving nothing away) but it happens so quickly that one wonders: since the blockade and the Sith were revealed as quickly as they were, was Darth Maul's mission in this book really necessary?<br />Just something to think about. I still heartily recommend the book.	2001-08-21
US	53087481	R3DHVRP7RVVPBQ	0440203198	764401873	The Messianic Legacy: Startling Evidence About Jesus Christ and a Secret Society Still Influential Today!	Books	3	100	108	N	N	Interesting reading ... but a false premise	As a sequel to the book &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; you might expect a little something different then what you get out of this book. That is not to say this book is necessarily bad - just of a different type than its predecessor. (While being of a different type, it is of the same general theme.)<br />The book is, in some ways, three separate books. Part One concerns itself more with the time of Jesus and the idea of apocalyptic and Messianic thinking. Part Two concerns itself more with the modern &quot;search for meaning&quot; and how religion plays a part in this but that this, by necessity, brings back some of the Messianic thinking of Jesus' time. Part Three centers on an alleged secret society, the Priory of Sion. Even with these differences there is a thread that runs through the parts - namely that of providing an end to the &quot;search for meaning&quot; by the restoration of a dynastic bloodline via the use of Jungian archetypes. It just so happens that this dynastic bloodline happens to be that of the lineal descent of Jesus. The secret society comes in because they are planning to do just this, according to the authors - restore a bloodline from the Merovingian Kings that, in turn, is claimed to have been descended from Jesus.<br />All of it makes for interesting reading and I would say that Parts One and Two are, for the most part, very well put forth along with some social commentary that is thoughtful and well-put. (You can tell, if you have read &quot;The Elixir and the Stone,&quot; that Bagient and Leigh's authorial hands are more in the first two parts than anywhere else.) What saddles this book, somewhat unfortunately, is Part Three which stands on much less stable ground than the material from the previous two sections. One complaint would be that while the first two sections are well written you are constantly waiting for the authors to finally make their point. You know they must have one and you can see they are groping towards it, butit is not really until Part Three that they finally just say what they want to say in any tangible fashion. Granted, all books of this nature have to have a set-up to a certain degree to posit their main point - but this one just seemed to drag on, particularly if you read &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; and pretty much knew where the ultimate destination was.<br />The problem is that the Priory of Sion has been mainly proven to be a hoax. It really did exist and Pierre Plantard really was its &quot;Grand Master&quot; but the problem is that the organization was never what Plantard claimed it to be, which is where the hoax comes from. A review like this is not the appropriate forum to divulge all those facts but needless to say the relevant documents have been published (although mostly in France). I recommend reading authors like Pierre Jarnac and Jean-Luc Chaumeil for the real story of the Priory of Sion, an organization that did not exist until 1956 and was only resurrected in name by Pierre Plantard for a brief time after the false reports of Noel Corbu. Thus the final goal of the book (showing the alleged plans of the Priory of Sion) is undermined. (Of course, if you were not aware of this fact the end of the book might give you a little fright, postulating, as it does, a conspiracy theory of somewhat epic proportions.) What this book will probably show you is that Henry Lincoln (and the other two authors) fell for the stories of Pierre Plantard and a group of people that wanted to seem more important than they were - basically a bunch of myth-makers and pseudo-royalists. This is even more telling when you realize that none of the authors, after this book, ever took up this theme again. Henry Lincoln's later books (The Holy Place and Key to the Sacred Pattern) pretty much avoid giving too much mention of the Priory of Sion in any great detail. Baigent and Leigh, for their parts, separated from this line of research and did not contribute any further with Henry Lincoln.<br />Beyond that, however, I would say the book is worth reading for the first two parts of it, which are very erudite in style. I would say that, regarding Part One, the authors do rely overly much on one particular researcher: Robert Eisenman. This is not to say that Eisenman's work is wrong or suspect - simply that you can tell they relied on him so much simply because his worked mirrored their own thoughts. One does not see a lot of dissenting views presented in the book that might cast doubt on the authors' theories as they are put forth. What is most unfortunate is that some of the well-stated ideas and concepts put forth in the beginning of the book may be marked as frivolous when one reads the latter portion of the book. My recommendation: take the good stuff at the beginning for what it is worth and be very skeptical of the conspiracy theory at the end. Do your research and you will find that the Priory of Sion really was nothing more than a few people's myth-making apparatus.<br />In the end, I had to give the book only three stars. The third star is because the first two parts of the book are really quite good when you remove them from the context of the conspiracy theory put forth in the third part.	2001-08-19
US	53087481	R7UZFQCJG8TO6	1893115941	236026060	User Interface Design for Programmers	Books	1	170	255	N	N	Not worth it...	Before even starting I have to say that I work in the field of Quality Assurance so I have read a lot of material on this subject, thus my standards are pretty high for this type of book. However, I also work in the programming field as well so I feel justified in my comments. As such, I think this is a book that will only please the programmer who likes to do minimal research and/or feels they do not have the time to devote to a better treatment of this subject.<br />First of all, you can get the majority of the book online at the author's Web site. I highly recommend checking that out before you plunk down the cash for this book. Second, all this author did was take a smattering of ideas that have been promulgated in other books and on the Web and distilled it down to a few simple particulars per chapter. (You can find a lot of his thoughts echoed from the UseIt Web site by Jakob Nielsen as well as the Interface Hall of Shame. He also takes some ideas directly from Donald Norman's &quot;The Design of Everyday Things.&quot; Finally, a lot of this can be found on the AskTog Web site.) You might think that would be a good thing. Perhaps in some ways it would. The problem is that only a smattering of that information is culled and thus a lot of the meat is missing.<br />The author also makes some statements throughout the book that contradict or are not provided with good reference information so as to determine validity. Example:<br />&quot;In fact, users don't read anything.&quot;<br />In the very next sentence, however, he says that &quot;when you do usability tests, ... there are quite a few users who simply do not read words.&quot; So now it is not all users (as the first statement implies), just a few. The bigger complaint within this, however, is that the author does not state what these &quot;usability tests&quot; are. He also does not cite any major usability studies at all. In fact, those who have studied usability realize that the above statement about &quot;users don't read anything&quot; applies to a certain subset of users in a certain subset of usability tests. You would not know that from reading this book.<br />The accessibility coverage is also very poor. Accessibility interfaces are now law in the United States (since the start of 2001) and yet this very important topic is given short shrift. Also, the author does not make clear one of the biggest topics for usability and accessibility design: the distinction between programs between intuitive and intuitable. Finally, the author rarely provides the basis for the facts he states. It is fine to talk about &quot;affordances&quot; and &quot;metaphors&quot; but if you do not explain the rationale behind such things (or what studies indicate that these things work), you are doing your readers a disservice.<br />I much more recommend a book like &quot;GUI Bloopers&quot; for those who want a good read by an informted individual on this subject who is not just copying others. For those programmers who really want to learn about usability and the principles behind it, I recommend &quot;Software for Use&quot; or the &quot;Usability Engineering Lifecycle.&quot; (Please note: those last two books are more geared to a Quality Assurance role, but are probably some of the most informative out there.) I would also more recommend the books by Alan Cooper (which are more theoretical but also more applicable in some cases).<br />Overall, I think this book was written for the programmer who does not have a lot of time to get through a larger book. Perhaps that makes sense to some. For me, it does not. Usability and accessibility are very important in the modern world, particularly in relation to the Web or with Web-based applications where the user is much more likely to give up on a piece of software than they would be if they just spent money on a software package. Thus, this is not a subject that you should expect to understand in this small montage of information.<br />I recommend reading the book at his Web site to determine if you want to buy the full book. If you do use this as a starter book (basically usability-with-training-wheels) then I urge you to consider other books on the same subject (some of which I have mentioned in this review) to get more informed on the subject. I also recommend checking out some of the online material that is quite abundant and where it seems most of this author's work derived from.	2001-08-17
US	53087481	RAP0X4I488PP6	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast, engrossing read about injustice and tragedy	This is the first major novel of Stephen King and I suppose in a certain way it shows if you consider it in relation to his later books. Stephen King has often referred to his earlier works as &quot;raw.&quot; However, in the case of this book I think that &quot;rawness&quot; lends to the story rather than detracts from it. The story also adheres to an episodic approach, jumping between Associated Press write-ups, fictitious book quotes, and interviews with people after the fact by an investigatory committee. All of that worked really well in this book when interspersed with the events as they had taken place. In a lot of books that kind of approach can be distracting but it worked perfectly in Carrie.<br />My one complaint: some of the characters are meant to be high school kids and yet their thought processes were sometimes a little too adult sounding. This is not to say there are not very mature high school kids, of course, but rather I just do not feel that they made sense in the context of this book. One example: Susan Snell. Relatively speaking she was a flat character in the story and yet her thought patterns were shown to have a depth probably beyond her years. (Again: this is not impossible, I just think some of the characterizations did not fit with the story. Rather they were blatant attempts to move the story forward by introducing the plot points.) This, however, is a small overall criticism of the book.<br />This is definitely a book where, in a lot of ways, you root for Carrie White. She was an anti-hero in the truest sense of the literary term. For anyone was ever picked on in school or witnessed this happening to others, you cannot help but feel immense sympathy for Carrie. And her actions, while violent and catastrophic, are ultimately understandable. And it is that understandibility that raises the book from being a just a simple horror novel to one of tragedy. The book also makes you consider, however briefly, what makes people like Carrie. The focus of the book is not on her power - that is actually incidental to the plot. The focus is on Carrie herself and what fashioned her into the human being she eventually becomes. It shows how children can be formed by the events of their crucial years and how that formation can go disastrously wrong. Overall the book is about injustice: injustice to Carrie White in how her parents raised her, injustice in a school system that has a derived system of cliques, injustice in a world that will not recognize the birth of something new even when it leads to potential danger.<br />If you have already read a lot of Stephen King's later works, you may find yourself not liking this book as much simply because of the different writing style or length. If, however, you want to see the evolution of Stephen King's thought (and writing) process as well as sit through a good story, pick this one up.	2001-08-13
US	53087481	R1WPMH2NY4VXV9	0425174298	465097594	Atlantis: Bermuda Triangle	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Interesting elements but a poor showing overall.	This is the sequel to &quot;Atlantis,&quot; the first foray into this odd mix of military battles, supernatural events, and mystical goings-on. I did like some of the basic premise behind the story line, with the tectonic fault lines. That was a clever addition to this kind of genre. The moving between time frames was pretty well done but the language was never handled right. Even in 999 CE you still felt like you were listening to people who were talking in 2001 CE. (Poul Anderson is an author who handled this kind of thing very well.)<br />My biggest problem with the first book was that Donegan did not even make a pretense of fitting his story within any sort of history on this planet - something these books generally do, at least to some degree. And in this book he has the same problems. His Khmer history is still off, as it was in the first book. He has Angkor Wat being built around 998 CE or before that. Wrong. It was built by Suryavarman II (who did not even begin his rule until 1113 CE). He has one character in 999 CE being from Angkor Thom, which was not started until the time of Jayavarman VII (between 1181 and 1218 CE). He also does the oldest trick in the book: high runes. Donegan says: &quot;Modern scholars aren't certain where or how it originated, but they have noted some similarities between Viking runes and the runes used by other ancient cultures.&quot; The runic language, however, was created by the Teutonic peoples. The Teutonic Runic system was used by the Goths, the Visigoths, the Vandals and many other Teutonic Tribes of the era. The Visigoths are the ones that sacked Rome and thus it was also carried into areas like Gaul. The Norse/Vikings of the tenth through the twelfth centuries also used this type of languag as did the Saxons who invaded the isle of Great Britain. The problem is we know where it derived: the original Teutonic tribes. We know that the runic system was in use from approximately 400 CE to around 1200 CE.<br />Now I know manypeople might say: &quot;Geez, lighten up! This is fiction.&quot; True - but the key to making good fiction about these alien encounter stories is at least getting some of the history right. In other words, take a few mysteries from the past and weave a story around them. Donegan's facts are in many cases wrong even about the established history of such things like I just talked about that it made it hard for me to suspend by disbelief, even for a work of fiction.<br />Donegan also screws up his physics. He mentions a &quot;Cerenkov detector&quot; and he says Cerenkov light is &quot;produced when an electrically charged particle traveled through water.&quot; This is so patently wrong as to be laughable to anyone with even a little background in physics. (Cerenkov light is a consequence of the motion of a charged particle with a speed that is greater than the speed of light in the same medium. No particle can exceed the speed of light in a vacuum (c), but in materials with an index of refraction represented by n, the particle velocity v will be greater than the velocity of light if v &gt; c/n. Not that difficult.) He also equates photons with gamma particles (at least in their properties) when describing one of his experiments. He also states that neutrinos were known as a fundamental building block in the 1930s. Not true. Wolfgang Pauli suspected its existence in 1930 but it was not found until 1956.<br />Forgetting all that for a moment: if you are capable of completely suspending any notions of a semi-realistic story and if you like alien encounter stories and are not worried about flaws in the basic research, you will probably really like this book (particularly if you liked the first one in the series). If you can put aside the various flaws in the book, you may still enjoy the story because there are a lot of interesting elements here. However, for me, I got the feeling that the author just wants to showcase as many oddities as possible in history and then sortof tack a story onto that. Normally I like that but the problem is that some of the &quot;oddities&quot; Donegan presents are not oddities at all when you do even the most minimal of research.<br />For some reason when I read &quot;Atlantis&quot; and now this sequel I just had a very time believing that this is the same author of &quot;The Rock&quot; and &quot;Area 51.&quot; (Greg Donegan and Robert Doherty are the same person.) There are enough elements here to make the book minimally interesting. To alien buffs, they will like it no matter what. To those who may be alien buffs but like a little more brains to their stories, this one may fail to please. I give it three stars just because it did have some interesting elements in it that were a new addition to this genre.	2001-08-06
US	53087481	R21PRKDCTON3MH	0060976624	408140508	Thank You for Smoking	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent satire and wonderful story.	Ever have a job where it feels like everyone is out to get you? Even your friends? Welcome to the world of Nick Naylor - spokesman for the Tobacco Institute. His job: promote one of the deadliest products on the planet and maintain his conscience while doing so. Ironically, you find yourself hoping that good old Nick Naylor survives his trials and tribulations in the book even though he knows he backs a product that is deadly. Some of the wit of Naylor's character comes out in that all-too human pathos of &quot;just paying the mortgage.&quot; The reason I think we cannot really hate Nick in this book is because all of us, at some point in our careers, have to become like him - at least a little bit.<br />This book is a very good satire, filled with many humorous moments. The dialogue is witty and keeps you involved. The story takes a very interesting (and dark) twist a little more than midway through and the ending is just perfect! It is rare to find a book that coheses so well at the beginning, middle, and end but this one did it. The characterization is just phenomenal in the book. You hate the characters you are supposed to hate and you like the characters you are supposed to like - even when the characters you are supposed to like, you really should hate! The book is populated mainly with anti-heroes and the main protagonist is certainly that (although certainly not in the style of Vonnegut or Faulkner). The book also presents a nifty way of trying to kill someone that, unfortunately, other reviewers have already revealed and they should not have. Luckily this is not a critical part of the book (insofar as knowing the method) but it does lead to some interesting consequences for the protagonist.<br />This is a book that makes fun of the bureaucracy that surrounds many institutions, particularly those in Washington D.C., but also pokes a little fun at society in general for some of the dichotomous notions it holds regarding those things that are &quot;not good for us,&quot; with the focus being on tobacco, guns, and alcohol. The title itself serves as a delicious double entendre that you have to read through the whole book to see.<br />The book will probably not offend smokers because it does not necessarily treat them as idiots for routinely using the old coffin nails or cancer sticks. And non-smokers (like myself) will certainly enjoy the book as they realize they have not fallen prey to the addictive &quot;joy&quot; of smoking. Highly recommened for any and all.	2001-08-04
US	53087481	R98ERJY2X9XDM	0590519255	769324731	The Dark Rival (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A quick read and an engaging story.	All in all, not bad. This is a very direct continuation to &quot;Jedi Apprentice 1: The Rising Force&quot; so if you read that one you will probably want to read this one as well. (And vice versa: read Part 1 first before hitting this one.) In reality, for me it would have been nice (and cheaper) if both books were wrapped up in one. They really should have been since the plot was such a direct continuation.<br />The plotting in this second book was good and, overall, the story was enjoyable to read. The only problem for me came at the end. I will not give away anything but a certain solution that Qui-Gon employs at the end just seems way too tacked on for me. (It reminded me of those science-fiction shows like &quot;Star Trek&quot; where the heroes sometimes have to figure out a solution to wrap-up the entire episode in about five seconds.) Perhaps there was some deeper symbolic meaning that I missed but I doubt it. That is a small complaint, however. The overall characterization was excellent and this book (along with Part 1) show us the initial formation of the relationship between Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi - something that will not be explored in the movies, thus making this a worthy addition to the collection of books for those fans who want to know all the details behind the characters.<br />I think younger readers will love this story and it also appeals to the older reader (like myself, at 29 years of age). This is done by telling an involving story that also offers a relatively quick read.	2001-08-02
US	53087481	R3VFTZRQ51ZALY	0061056391	275631839	Foundation's Triumph (Second Foundation Trilogy)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good conclusion - but perhaps a little dark ...	Well, the final end to the trilogy of the Second Foundation Trilogy and possibly to the original series as well. This book (along with the hints in &quot;Foundation and Chaos&quot;) tells us what the ending of &quot;Foundation and Earth&quot; meant. This was a good note to end the series on, although with reservations for me. This novel posits an even larger conspiracy existing behind all of human history than any of other books in the series (including Asimov's) although it is easy to see the logical build-up. This was a pretty good ending to the whole series in terms of wrapping things up in a relatively neat little package that answered most of the questions, and certainly solidifying the end of &quot;Foundation and Earth.&quot;<br />Having said the above and having really liked this book, I do have to say that this series took a very interesting twist that was really brought to the fore in this book. Your feelings towards the &quot;helpful&quot; Daneel may change with this book, as they did for me. This book (combined with the other two in the New Foundation Trilogy) give a very dark vision of mankind's past and the actions of that past lead to a very dark, conformist future that, to me, is frightening in the extreme. To that end, it is my feelings that these books might be a little darker than Asimov would have preferred. (I am not an Asimov expert by any stretch but I think the love of robots that he displayed might have been taken too far in these books.)<br />Granted, I think the actions of the robots were logical given their imperatives but I also think that this showed Daneel to be the ultimate villain of humanity. The path this book takes (and that was started in &quot;Foundation and Chaos&quot;) is that the end makes it clear: in order to allow the human race to live, we have to take away that which makes them human.<br />All in all: a good book, well plotted and paced, with excellent characters. The puzzles were enough to keep you reading and there arenice tie-in's with just about every book in the Asimov &quot;Empire,&quot; &quot;Robot,&quot; and &quot;Foundation&quot; novels. A worthy addition to the collection. Even though this was accepted by the Asimov estate and even though I think it was an excellent book in its own right, I still felt that this series led itself a little too much away from what I consider to be the Asimov thought process. Unfortunately I cannot explain that without giving key elements of the story away so I just have to leave it by saying that this book could only get four stars from me instead of the five I would have liked to give it for the excellent story. (I would have given it five stars if there was more of a narrative element that questioned the benefits between the different aspects of mankind's future that were proposed. If nothing else, however, this book made you think about those options - I just wish it would have explored them.)	2001-07-26
US	53087481	R2461BOX4QUFG1	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	4	35	38	N	N	Well told mystery story - but some facts are lacking.	Originally published as &quot;The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail&quot; in the UK, it was released as &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; in the United States. Interesting book? Definitely. Factual book? Perhaps not always. This is the book that really started the craze, first into the Rennes-le-Chateau mystery and then into the dynastic bloodline of Jesus, a craze that shows no signs of slowing down. The writing style is very well done, almost conversational so it is very easy to breeze through the book. Henry Lincoln has an excellent writing style and if you have read some of his solo works, you can definitely see his hand here. The danger, however, with this type of book is that many people will not do the necessary research to follow up some of the information that is presented as facts. Having said that, the authors present an excellent bibliography of many sources that they used.<br />This book is worth having just because of the interesting story it weaves. If you are at all interested in the Rennes-le-Chateau story or the possible dynastic bloodline of Jesus, this is a must for your library, if nothing else for the reason that it was really the first book to bring all these topics to worldwide attention. Even though this book is a popularization and meant for a lay-audience, it is, in many ways, geared to researchers. Some of the chapters throw off names, facts, and figures like a historical report and you have to be prepared to wade through some material that may seem tedious or of dubious relevance at the time.<br />Also one has to realize the shift of focus in the book. The first part of the book details the alleged mystery of Rennes-le-Chateau and the findings of a parish priest named Berenger Sauniere in the nineteenth century. A little middle blurb sort of segues into a secret society (that is not really so secret) that made a lot of information on the material in the first part of the book public. The second part then recounts a much vaster tale of conspiracy that, in short order, leaves the original story behind and takes on a life of its own. (This part of the story was taken up by others who expounded on the conspiracy idea, such as in the book &quot;Rex Deus.&quot;)<br />Having said that, the whole book rests on the veracity of a group known as the Priory of Sion and the validity of parchments that were alleged to have been found by the priest of Rennes-le-Chateau. Lincoln and crew willfully dismissed some evidence that had come to light before they published and this was mainly the work of Jean-Luc Chaumeil. He demonstrated that, in essence, the Priory of Sion was a hoax. Yes, they did exist as a group but with nothing of the supposed secret origins they claim to have had. Chaumeil also had evidence (presented to Lincoln and crew) that the parchments were really forgeries that were done by a member of the Priory of Sion named Philippe de Cherisey. (Lincoln later admitted this in one his later books.) The authors also almost totally ignore the works of Rene Descadeillas and Jacques Riviere. These authors have written excellent books that provided good evidence that the &quot;mystery&quot; was not quite as mysterious as some would like to believe. This material is mainly in hard to find French books and are not always accessible for the modern reader - who very rarely checks sources anyway. Perhaps that is why Lincoln did not center on these texts too much, figuring that not too many other people would either.<br />There are also details that the authors make seem mysterious and yet really are not. For example, they mention that Sauniere was exonerated by the Vatican and tout this as a mystery. However, what they do not state is that this was simply because the Vatican did not have all the facts at hand. When they did finally get them, Sauniere was indeed ousted from the church. They also fail to look at the very important connection Sauniere had with the Royalists of his day and that gives a very good indication of where his wealth may have come from.<br />Granted, there is still room for mystery in some of the details of the story - but not many. I think some of this might have been why Baigent and Leigh parted ways from Lincoln after the &quot;Messianic Legacy&quot; was published, particularly as Lincoln's ideas went to odder areas such as those detailed in his book &quot;The Holy Place.&quot; All in all, however: worth the read. Just be sure to check the facts and do not take everything that is said in the book as always being true. If you are a serious researcher, check into the sources and particuarly look at some of the French works from the &quot;Atelier Empreinte&quot; bookshop, located in Rennes-le-Chateau and orderable on-line.	2001-07-26
US	53087481	R310QXR1G5GHUV	0440220734	885811913	Area 51	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Fast-paced read - but nothing really new for the genre.	Basically, for this genre, this was a pretty good book. However, with each turn of the page I realized this was all just the same stuff, over and over again. Here we have MJ-12. Here we have Area 51. Over there we have the Great Pyramid. And what is that over there? Could that be high runic language? Why, yes it could. And, true to form, here we have aliens that want to wipe us out. Here we have another race that can save us. Etc. Etc. Etc. There was really nothing very unique here at all and this is a shame because Doherty's other work, &quot;The Rock,&quot; was a nice update to this somewhat tired (for me) genre.<br />The characters were very stereotypical: Mike Turcotte (the ultimate good guy, but ridden with angst); General Gullick (hard-edge, no-nonsense military); Kelly Reynolds (reporter who has to get the story to the world), etc. Granted, people like this exist. But these characters just seemed cut out of a mould for me. I was guessing each twist and turn of the story as I read through the book and, not too surprisingly, I guessed correctly each time.<br />Having said that, however, I have to say that the book is a fast-paced read and pretty enjoyable. Yes, it is cliched in many ways, but Doherty does a nice job of keeping the story moving and making you wonder just what is really going on and how the protagonists are going to get out of the mess they are in. Do not read it for any accuracy of ancient mysteries on the planet (because some of the aspects in the book are stated wrong) - just read it for a fun romp. All in all, I thought it was a good story and a well-paced read: there was just really nothing new here. However, it was enough to make me give the sequel to the book a shot.	2001-07-26
US	53087481	R3ON8JQRXN7PZU	0345433246	119101346	Kingdom Come	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Promising plot ... poorly executed.	I had high hopes for this book when I had heard about its theme, based as it supposedly is on the books &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; and &quot;The Messianic Legacy&quot; by Henry Lincoln, Michael Bagient, and Richard Leigh. Sadly, those hopes were dashed as I plowed through the book. The main point of contention: Leo Schidlof (a figure used in the book) was a historical figure and he died in 1966. Yet here he was in 1988 with no explanation whatsoever. And he was not a professor at all in real life, rather he was a dealer in miniatures. So the whole premise of the book was pretty much shot for me right away - at least as far as history goes.<br />The writing style is very poor and is stilted in a lot of cases, particularly in some of the dialogue scenes. The characters are mainly stereotypes, albeit some are a little more fleshed out. (For you writers out there, the book is mainly populated with flat characters rather than round ones.) This was a prime example of stilted dialogue and, for me, made the book very hard to read as compared to others of the genre.<br />I found myself reading to the end just to figure out what the actual mystery was (even though I was pretty sure I knew) and was not really enjoying myself along the way. One thing I will say, however: I liked the main character, Jack Dunphy, in several ways. He seemed very real to me. He constantly screwed things up and did other things right - just like a real person would do. You really did get the feel that he was caught up in events that he was doing his absolute best to figure out. The problem, for me, was the plotting was just not consistent with this characterization. The other problem was the settings. Sometimes it seemed that the setting descriptions were overshadowing anything else in the book. Instead of giving the book atmosphere I kept finding myself whisked to new countries or small towns and I could not stop to catch my breath. (Granted, the protagonist was on the run in the novel butI still felt as if I was getting a whirlwind tour of Europe that was sacrificing the story.)<br />If you are thinking that you will enjoy this book because you enjoyed dynastic bloodline that was proposed in the book &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; or the secret society proposed in &quot;The Messianic Legacy&quot; you should perhaps think again. However, if you are just looking for a conspiracy theory story, you might actually like this one. The use of the Jungian-type psychological concepts (like universal archetypes) did seem to fit in well with the story, although sometimes it was a little stretched.<br />All in all, however, I had to leave this with two stars. I moderately liked the basic premise but thought it was handled poorly and I am not sure that someone a little well-versed in the subject of a royalist plot (like that which is assumed for the Merovingians) would get the point of the book or enjoy it as much as someone who has studied that story.	2001-07-22
US	53087481	R10CDX2EV6LPAV	0590519220	37132823	The Rising Force (Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice, Book 1)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Enjoyable, even though quick, read.	I really enjoyed this book. Lest someone be turned off thinking it is just for kids, I am a 29 year old guy who loves a good tale in the Star Wars universe, and I never felt I was reading a book that was &quot;just for kids.&quot; It is, of course, geared for a younger mindset so you have to keep that in mind relative to the type of stories you like to read.<br />This story takes place quite a bit of time before even Episode 1 so it fills in some details about Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan that are interesting. However, while a lot of times I read these books to fill the gaps in the Star Wars universe, I more just read the first Jedi Apprentice book because I was curious. As it turns out, it was well worth the purchase. There were some points where I felt the book was just moving forward at light speed without slowing down a little but then, of course, it was also written to appeal to younger readers and, taken in that context, I think the plot was good as well as the plotting. Even characterization was done quite well.<br />I will definitely be picking up the next in the series. I would say this is not an essential read for the Star Wars fan who only likes a well-fleshed out story told over the course of two hundred or so pages. But if you want a quick and enjoyable romp through the Star Wars universe, you might want to give this one a try.	2001-07-16
US	53087481	R7TIX79GA8CXN	0440220726	525022420	The Rock	Books	3	19	19	N	N	Good twist to the normal genre...	This aliens-among-us story was actually a little better than the normal standard fare. By &quot;standard fare&quot; I mean those stories where aliens are responsible for just about every mysterious artifact on the planet or every little historical event that we cannot explain. This story was refreshing in that context. Having said that, however - for me it seems to have missed the mark. I did like the mystery that was set up in the book and the way the protagonists went about trying to solve the mystery.<br />But as the end approached I just felt that it was not really going anywhere. It was very hard to get into the protagonists' concerns about the future of civilization. You could easily go along with the plot, but the characters were simply swept up by the plotting. It was not their intentions and motivations that drove the plot to any great degree. The characters were all reactive rather than proactive and, thus, pretty bland in my eyes.<br />Normally with that poor kind of plotting and characterization interplay I would go with a three-star rating. However, the story ends up being unique enough at the end to be a nice addition to this type of genre that I had wanted to give it that extra star. But then the plot elements are poorly ripped apart at the end by the misuse of a science-fictional plot device - thus I was back to three stars.<br />I cannot say much about this plot device simply because it would ruin the book for those who have not read it if I gave details. However, the final ending, that concerns two of the main protagonists (Levy and Hawkins), almost totally negates everything that happened in the book (at least potentially). In fact, it is almost so poorly thought of that Doherty did not realize that this could have altered everything that had gone before. Again, I might have even said too much here but anytime the ending of a book derails the beginning, I have to rethink my review.<br />When all is said and done the somewhat poor characterizationcombined with the potentially backfiring ending, I had to leave the book with three stars.	2001-07-15
US	53087481	R3BANB08T98Q8W	0425169367	420963473	Atlantis 1	Books	2	12	17	N	N	A bad example of the genre for a thinking person...	Usually these authors of aliens-among-us books at least try to stick with some established history or use real existing mysteries about our history to build up their plot. Donegan did not even really do that and this seriously detracted from the book for me. It appears that in many cases he did not even do his research or, if he did, decided he was just going to chuck the research and do what he wanted.<br />Some examples: There is no &quot;Long Tiem&quot; in Laos - not now, nor was there ever. There was also never a location or city in Cambodia called &quot;Angkor Kol Ker&quot; nor is there any legend of this supposed city. Also, Angkor Wat is not part of Angkor Thom (also known as Thommanon) as the author continually states. Also, the author gets even his basic dates wrong for the temples that do actually exist. Khmer architecture reached its height with the construction of Angkor Wat by Suryavarman II (occurring between 1113 and 1150 CE) and Angkor Thom by Jayavarman VII (occurring between 1181 and 1218 CE). Donegan says Angkor Thom was founded in 800 CE, although later in the book he says 802 CE. Either way: completely false. Also, the Khmer Empire is not listed by Chinese sources in the fifth century CE as the author states (at least not definitively). The Khmers (Cambodians) came on the scene in the sixth century CE. There is also no theory (even legendary) about the Khmers coming from the America's in the third millenium BCE as the author states. Finally, Donegan makes it sound as if the Khmer Empire &quot;mysteriously disappeared&quot; in 800 CE. This, too, is patently false. Cambodia, around the 1350s, was repeatedly invaded by Thailand. In 1434 the Thai captured Angkor and dispersed the popluation, while transferring the capital to Phnom Penh. This was pretty much the end of the established Khmer Empire. No mystery there. In fact, if anything it was in about 801 CE that the Khmer Empire began rising to a new power under Jayavarman II after about a centuryof internal division.<br />He also seems to get a little confused about the difference between the &quot;Bermuda Triangle&quot; and the &quot;Devil's Sea.&quot; At the very beginning he describes the famous Flight 19 disappearing into the Triangle. But one of the protagonists says that the Japanese know the area as the &quot;Devil's Sea.&quot; Later he treats the Devil's Sea as a separate area entirely. (This is common on paranormal sites on the Web as well. Some treat the locations as the same, and call it the &quot;Devil's Triangle&quot;, and others treat them as different locations.) Granted, this could have just been a misprint.<br />Another example: the famous Flight 19 over the &quot;Bermuda Triangle&quot; is being led by a man named Lieutenant Presson in the book. In actuality, the flight was led by Lieutenant Charles Taylor, a man reported as having a &quot;slight hangover&quot; that day. (Also the Martin Mariner plane sent to look for them did not actually disappear as the author recounts. This plane, as reported by many eyewitnesses, blew up about thirty seconds after takeoff. This was not the first time this happened to the Mariner's due to the fact that they had faulty gas tanks and valves.)<br />All of this made it hard to enjoy the book when I knew even the basics were so completely wrong, even if this was done in the name of creative license. Also, the Special Ops officer with the psychic-like abilities was a little too much for me. (He routinely acted as a sort of Deus-ex-machina.) The military-style writing was only half-accomplished for me and just did not work with the more fantastical elements of the book (like seven-headed serpents). Even with all that, I have to say that if you like alien encounter stories and their alleged involvement in mankind's past you will probably like this one. (Most people heavily involved in alien encounter stories are not too big on research anyway, I have found, so that the discrepancies I mentioned will probably not be minded or even noticed.) When I stopped looking at the numerous inaccuracies and just read the book for what it was, it was somewhat enjoyable and kept you reading until the end. It was even enough to make me want to read the sequel.<br />What really turns me off the author, however, is a quote on the book jacket. The author is Greg Donegan, who also writes under the name Robert Doherty. On the cover of the book I have there is a quote from Robert Doherty: &quot;You'll wonder if it could be real.&quot; Thus the man is basically plugging his own book, but acting like another author is quoting how good his work is! Thus, because of this sanguine dishonesty (even if at a publisher's behest), and because of the obviously unresearched (or poorly researched) nature of the book, I had to leave this with two stars.	2001-07-14
US	53087481	RBI8EWOR4QKYM	1862044724	848298020	Rex Deus: The True Mystery of Rennes-Le-Chateau and the Dynasty of Jesus	Books	2	35	40	N	N	Promising but inherently flawed.	This was an interesting book that claims it has the &quot;truth&quot; of the Rennes-le-Chateau mystery. The authors lambast &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; in many instances and yet their own work is based on an informant that they cannot divulge the identity of and thus the whole basis of the Rex Deus families is brought into question.<br />The book looks at the history that the Rex Deus families claim to be part of by looking at the early times of the Christian era and then jumps to the Templar era to show the continuation of this supposed family. Thus, the book follows a logical structure. However that is not to say that everything necessarily follows logically. A lot of it completely depends on the truth of their meeting this man &quot;Michael&quot; (their informant) and his possible veracity. The authors state: &quot;Thus, in the era where we least expected to have any chance of finding documentary confirmation of the Rex Deus tradition, both the Gospels and contemporaneous documents contain indications that the tradition is founded upon a highly plausible basis.&quot; Which, of course, does nothing to prove the veracity since &quot;Michael's&quot; claims could have been based on this tradition to begin with. Also, the tradition being looked at (continuing the family line) is not all that unheard of in many different circumstances. This is a man who the authors promised to protect the anonymity of and while this disproves nothing in their work, it is this combined with some of their errors of fact that, if nothing else, made their work suspect. Some of those errors:<br />The authors make a statement at one point: &quot;This would certainly tend to confirm the esoteric legend that Jesus did not die on the cross.&quot; What they say would &quot;certainly tend to confirm&quot; is a reference in The Lost Gospel According to Saint Peter. However, there is no more good reason to treat this document any more realistically than the synoptic Gospels or the Gospel ofJohn.<br />The authors state: &quot;This programme [The Shadow of the Templars] provoked an avalanche of correspondence. One letter, from a retired Anglican priest, aroused the authors' curiosity, as it made bold assertions with apparent indifference as to whether they believed them or not.&quot; This refers to the man with the alleged proof of the fake Crucifixion. However, according to Henry Lincoln's narratives, this man approached them at the end of the first show in 1972: &quot;The Lost Treasure of Jerusalem&quot; and not after &quot;The Shadow of the Templars.&quot; This is significant if one has read &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail.&quot;<br />The authors state: &quot;One casualty [of excavation bombings] was the dynamiting of an ornate tomb in the near vicinity which was reputed to be the one depicted by Poussin...&quot; This is completely false. The tomb was purposely dynamited by the owner in 1988.<br />The authors state: &quot;The tests were not commissioned by the Church and we are not bound by the results.&quot; This is attribed to Luigi Gonella. This was attributed, according to these authors, to the first carbon dating of the Shroud. Not true. This comment referred to DNA tests that were carried out on the Shroud with samples that the Church was not aware were taken and not the carbon-dating. It is odd they screwed up this fact because on the same page they mention that it was the Vatican that specifically did turn over the Shroud for carbon-based testing.<br />The authors state that: &quot;The spear thrust in the side of Jesus ... was not to prove that the Messiah was dead, but to relieve the pressure on his lungs and allow him to breathe.&quot; They, of course, offer no evidence of this and one wonders how the Romans would have known that death actually occurs via the scretion of fluids into the pleural sac. Answer: they would not have.<br />The authors state: &quot;This was a young man of Davidic descent, Joseph of Tyre, whose ancestor was Hiram, Kingof Tyre, known to masonic legend as Hiram Abif.&quot; Granted, they could be right but most every source I have checked states that King Hiram and Hiram Abif were demonstrably different people.<br />The authors quote a few passages from the New Testament and then state that these (combined with knowledge of Judaic law at the time of Jesus) show &quot;an irrefutable indication that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene.&quot; I am not necessarily stating here that they are wrong or right in my opinion - only that to call their evidence &quot;irrefutable&quot; is a little sanguine. This is something the authors did quite a bit. Their religious bias shows often. The sacrasm and anger practically oozes every time the term &quot;Holy Mother the Church&quot; is used. However, one can understand the authors' viewpoints as the Roman Church was very bloodthirsty at the times they recount.<br />It was actually a good review of some of the early history of what became Christianity and did it good job of casting doubt upon the &quot;accepted dogma&quot; of the Catholic Church without degrading into outright vitriolic as many books of that type do. The words &quot;ridiculous&quot; and &quot;absurdity&quot; come in often. Granted, they are accurate historically speaking. The Catholic Church went to extreme lengths to explain themselves and their logical convolutions are amusing even today. However, this could turn off some readers.<br />Beyond all of that: this book was meant to persuade you. Specifically, to persuade you of the validity of the Rex Deus families. I, for one, while admitting some evidence was good, was not persuaded. Because of the good history elements I gave it three stars originally. But factoring in the bald assumptions the authors make as well as the short shrift they give many topics, like the Turin Shroud, as well as some factual errors I had to move it down to two stars.	2001-07-12
US	53087481	R2E7UNOC02CARY	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Thoughtful and Imaginative. Well worth the read.	I loved this book! Thoroughly and completely! It was a smorgasbord of various concepts like paleontology, quantum mechanics, the many-worlds interpretation, the basis of biology, periodic mass extinction events, the inevitability of death, the meaning of life, the existence of a creator - and all within a wonderful science-fictional storyline. Having said that, recommending it categorically is a hard thing to do. Just like you have to have a certain mentality to read Douglas Adams and Terry Pratchett and a different one to read Kurt Vonnegut or Christopher Buckley, I can see some people not liking this book because it mainly serves as an exposition of ideas wrapped around an interesting plot.<br />You have to like ideas and the general pursuit of knowledge to really like this book and get the most from it. And you have to like when an author wants to showcase a lot of material in order to present his plot. I could easily see some people not liking this book simply because they might feel it really has too much dialogue, for example. For me, however, I like that. If you like the original Isaac Asimov material (where dialogue figured prominently and character-driven was the path of the book) and you like the presentation of scientific concepts in a science-fictional format I think you will really get a kick out of this book. To get the most out of this book, you should probably have a well-rounded knowledge set about different scientific disciplines - but even if you do not have that, Saywer explains all of the concepts in easy and lucid prose. It just depends on what level you want to enjoy the concepts.<br />If I had to pick a flaw in the book at all, I would say that in order to tell as much of a story as he wanted to, Sawyer had to make his characters jump to some extreme conclusions based on assumptions. Again, however, this was not a serious detraction for me (although it usually is) because of the general story that was being put forth.	2001-07-03
US	53087481	R1JBZ7R7EDLD12	0061056405	920320505	Foundation and Chaos: The Second Foundation Trilogy	Books	4	13	13	N	N	True to Asimov form. Good addition to series.	Unlike Foundation's Fear (the first book in the new Foundation trilogy), I can categorically recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the Foundation saga started by Isaac Asimov. Granted, you have to read Foundation's Fear to really get the full benefit from this book - but this story was told in a much better fashion and one that, in my opinion, was more true to the Asimov mold of writing and thinking. (In fact, a few times it was easy for me to forget that this was not vintage Asimov.)<br />The story is very well fleshed-out and the plot (and plotting) are excellent, including the political aspects. (After all, Hari Seldon always operated in the sphere of the political regime). I highly recommend it. It makes slogging my way through the first book in the new trilogy (which I was not as thrilled with) well worth the effort. Foundation and Chaos also ties in very nicely with the events from the Part I section of the original 1951 Foundation novel and fills in a lot of gaps as well as keeping the wonderful Robots-Foundation combination story going. We also get a little taste of what the events in Asimov's Foundation and Earth foreshadowed.	2001-07-03
US	53087481	R32OF3WJFE2OFG	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	2	10	12	N	N	The land was just a little too strange for me...	When I read this book I was pretty much just glad to finish it. I know this is supposed to be the most popular book of Heinlein's career and I know many would say that it was the best book for science fiction ever. Personally, this book did nothing for me. And I did try to put myself in the mindset of an audience in 1961 - when the book was written. It just did not work for me. I know he was trying to make sociological statements here and when you get around the lackluster story and the cardboard characterization I can see some grains of things in the book that I like.<br />The basic theme of the book is about an alien (well, actually a human but one raised with an alien mindset) who comes to Earth and tries to impart what it sees as essentially latent in the human race but unrecognized in practice. The last part of the book was actually the most interesting as far as espousing the ideas from a sociological point of view as well as showing how a massive cultural change would have to take the form of a religion - even if the cultural change eschewed much of what religion had to say. The book actually had some interesting concepts and, if presented in a different fashion, might have made this a much better read for me then it was. Now, perhaps had I actually read it in 1961 with the concomitant cultural values of the day - perhaps things would have seemed different. But, somehow, I doubt it. Obviously, if you are a Heinlein fan - this is the cream of the crop. If you are not, I might still recommend it but I recommend you look at some of his other works that are not so geared to making a statement - for example, &quot;The Puppet Masters&quot; or &quot;The Door Into Summer.&quot;	2001-06-30
US	53087481	R3VHVHKB79J5BF	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The end of modern society has lessons to teach...	This is most assuredly not a happy-go-lucky story. When you are talking about a virus that ravages the world, you are not in for too many good times. However - that does not mean you are not in for a good read. In traditional Stephen King style, he really goes to town on characterization. With the size of this book (particularly the expanded edition), you have no trouble understanding the survivors in this story, from all their motives, imaginings, and desires.<br />What may detract from this novel for some people is the inherent religious overtones that exist within it. This was not just a battle of man against nature after a terrible tragedy. This was a battle for the soul of mankind itself. However, if you read between the lines a little bit (or just exercise your own creative reading license) you can interpret this &quot;light and darkness&quot; battle as a polarization of the human condition and how people would react during a globe-spanning disaster. Personally, the first 250 or so pages of this book (when the virus is making its rounds) is perhaps the scariest thing I have ever read as well as the most poignant when the survivors realize that the old world has left them behind and they have to rebuild.<br />Certain concepts underlie the whole story that serve to highlight the allegorical themes of the work in terms of the battle between &quot;good and evil.&quot; Can man rebuild his culture without bringing back the same problems again and again? The answer would seem to be &quot;no.&quot; Is mankind perenially going to do things that will potentially bring about extinction? The answer would seem to be &quot;yes.&quot; And, perhaps most importantly, is it possible for groups of people to make a stand against this apparently ingrained nature? As King says: &quot;The place where you made your stand never mattered. Only that you were there ... and still on your feet.&quot; Read this book and you will enjoy it. However, read between the lines of this book and theinherent sociological comments on our society and you will enjoy it at a deeper level.	2001-06-30
US	53087481	R3FAQE6T7XHEE4	0061056383	862581106	Foundation's Fears (Second Foundation Trilogy)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good addition to the series ... with some reservations.	I really wanted to like this and, for the most part I did. The plotting (as opposed to the plot) was not the best, in my opinion. There are two sub-plots going on in the story: that of the normal Foundation-Seldon storyline, and that of a series of simulations running to help Hari Seldon figure out what he is missing from his grand theory. The stories do weave together (and how they do so is pretty clever) but sometimes the descriptions of the &quot;cyberworld&quot; get a little tiresome as you work through the grammatical contortions and turns of phrase. (Perhaps readers who enjoy what used to be called &quot;cyberpunk&quot; will like these parts more than I did.) What I did like is that there was a more mathematical treatment of the whole idea of psychohistory as well as narrative explaining some of the concepts - something Asimov never really did because his emphasis was different.<br />However, this book was mainly just a vehicle to show a bunch of different, sometimes-related ideas and concepts around what is a pretty minimal story for the most part. Having said that, however, I did enjoy the book overall as a continuation of the Foundation saga and the idea that it does fill in some gaps from the original series of novels. The most important thing to realize (which is obvious but sometimes only in retrospect) is that Benford's idea is to tell a story within the Foundation universe but not in the same manner that you might be used to if you have read all the other Foundation novels. I can honestly say this: everything does start making more sense at the end.<br />Also for those who feel this is a continuation of &quot;Foundation and Earth,&quot; you should realize that it is not. Personally I would almost like to see some stories that continue the series where Asimov left off, with the potential race of super aliens among us. Perhaps the next time around.<br />I gave three stars simply because while I love the Foundation series, the writing style in this one was just not to my liking and there was a little too much divergence early on (even though it made sense later).	2001-06-30
US	53087481	RZHTI8PU553JB	0345430352	998314402	Judgment Day	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Well plotted conspiracy end-times story.	Do you like plots regarding world conspiracies? Do you like stories about end-time prophecies? Do you enjoy the idea that institutions such as the Vatican, the United States government, etc. are the holders of unbelievable secrets that could possibly restructure the world as we know it? Well, then you might really be able to get into this book. Personally, I really enjoyed it. The plot was well-paced and it kept you wanting to read more. I will say that the end of the book was just a little too contrived for me and even too simplistic for the complex plot that had been driven to up to that point. That was a bit of an anti-climax for me. In fact, that is the only reason I could not give the book a full five stars.<br />Even with that, however, I heartily recommend the book. For the most part it is a non-stop roller coaster as you try to figure out, along with the protagonists, just what the heck (or is that Hell?) is going on. For those who might fear that this is just a lot of religious battling between the forces of light and darkness (a la &quot;The Stand&quot;) with highly moralistic overtones, you will be in for a pleasant surprise as to the twists and turns of the story. On the other hand, for those hoping that this is a titanic battle between some (insert your God here) and (insert your God's nemesis here), a la &quot;This Present Darkness,&quot; you may not find this one to your liking.	2001-06-30
US	53087481	R19CETU8OVGRPO	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good read - but a few chinks in its armor	This was my first Stephen King book and, overall, I really liked it. The plot was very interesting even given that, from an initial standpoint, it is sort of hackneyed. But I have always been a sucker for the &quot;insidious invasion&quot; type scenarios. What really made me like it was the characterization that was done, particularly for good ol' Gardner. When you realize that the protagonists of the novel are filled with more shortcomings, in some ways, than the antagonists, you have a good love-hate thing going with the characters.<br />The &quot;chinks in the armor&quot; of this good story, however, start to show up for me near the end of the book where what is basically meant to be scary (or at least threatening in a sci-fi sort of way) almost turns into a bad B-movie set of props. However, by that time I was so hooked into the story that I pretty much took it all in stride. Overall, a very entertaining book with great characterization.	2001-02-24
US	53087481	R3A7JSF4KOCSS1	0345430093	495583167	Rocks of Ages - Science and Religion in the Fullness of Life (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Concept of the book is interesting, but poor argumentation.	With the idea of attempting to reconcile the very different views of science and religion via a process called NOMA, the book, at first glance, seems worth the read. And it is: but only to find out that science and  religion really are at odds - which is the exact opposite intention of the  book.<br />Gould's book is well written in his characteristic style and  provides some interesting historical insights, but the main premise relies  on the etymological derivation of the word &quot;religion&quot; which is  not how the term is actually used and thus defeats much of the argument.  While touting the scientific method and how religion should stay away form  it, Gould invokes his &quot;amens&quot; and &quot;Lords&quot; enough that  one wonders if the god of religion has, indeed, been found in the  scientific method in Gould's world.<br />The examples Gould uses to prove his  point (which are too few) and the lack of the use of terms as most people  use and recognize them seriously hurt the argument in my opinion. The book  is meant to be a persuasive argument. I, for one, was not persuaded.	1999-04-05
