US	53080622	R24FFJAZ6EIV9Z	0553587625	274631081	Summer's Child	Books	5	23	24	N	N	SIMPLY OUTSTANDING!!!	<br />Once again Luanne Rice has gifted us with an emotional tale set but this time she strays a bit from her familiar New England and gives us a Nova Scotia setting; she uses fictional towns and locations but my best guess is the Cape Breton area.   <br /> <br />The very pregnant Mara Jameson had disappeared from the garden of her grandmother's home in Connecticut on the summer solstice nine years earlier.  Every year on the anniversary of her death, the media brings her name up again, wondering what in the world happened to the seemingly happy young woman.  Recently retired police detective Patrick Murphy has never given up his quest.  He has always thought her husband, successful businessman Edward Hunter had something to do with her disappearance but has never been able to prove anything. Every year he visits her grandmother, Maeve, hoping for another clue; something else she might remember. <br /> <br />Up in Hawk's Cove, Nova Scotia two women have come to escape abusive marriages.  Both women have nine-year-old daughters.  Lily Malone and her daughter, Rose, have lived in Hawk's Cove for nine years.  Lily runs a stitchery shop and her real love in her life is her daughter Rose who was born with a heart defect and has been in an out of hospitals her entire life.  The other woman is Marisa Taylor who with her daughter, Jessica, has more recently come to Hawk's Cove.  Marisa is more mysterious but the two young girls have become best friends.  The two young women are a part of a larger group of women who call themselves the Nanouks, a group of friends who are always there for one another in this isolated but idyllic area which draws many visitors who go on whale watching trips to see the many different types of whales including the amazing beluga whales.   <br /> <br />Then there's Liam Neill.  Instead of captaining whale watching boats like the rest of the men in his family, he became an oceanographer, even after a terrible tragedy as a youth caused him the loss of an arm.  He has become protective of Lily and Rose ever since they came to down and even though Rose cares for him a great deal, Lily and him have always remained at a distance emotionally.  Then when tragedy is barely averted during what was supposed to be a fun whale watching outing for Rose's 9th birthday, everything changes. <br /> <br />I started this book Saturday afternoon while looking out at the waters of the Strait of Juan de Fuca where I had just recently started the first whale watching trip I'd ever been on less than a month ago so of course was gripped to the pages from the beginning.  I had the sound of the waves hitting the beach resonating all around me as I was reading, unable to put the book down.  And a more emotional book I'd be hard pressed to find.  I rarely have admitted this to others, so to do so in a review is really putting myself out there, but I have been in a relationship such as the one Lily and Marisa found themselves in.  I could really identify with them.     <br /> <br />And Liam.  Ah Liam.   Jamie Fraser from the Outlander series has often been called the most perfect hero in fiction written today.  Liam Neill gives him a run for the money.  He is sensitive, caring, and downright sexy.  He is strong, intelligent, and loves children.  What more could you ask for??   <br /> <br />Luanne Rice's emotional writing brought me to tears more than once, and she gave a twist near the end that I never saw coming - one that had me sit straight up from my halfway-lying down position!  I was completely exhausted from a stay spent doing a very tedious chore, arriving home at 11PM, but I had about 90 more pages to read and even though I knew I had to get up early to go to work in the morning, there was no way I could not go to sleep without finishing this book.  It is that good. <br /> <br />If I had any complaint about this book, it's that I found it to not quite stand alone.  It leads into Rice's June 21st release SUMMER OF ROSES.  But really, it is a minor quibble.  You can be sure I will be first in line to get that book the day it comes out (do you think I can call the summer solstice a holiday so I can take the day off work to read it??)  The book is so outstanding, the characters so wonderful, and the villain such a well-done villain.  I've long been a fan of Luanne Rice's books and this just cements her standing as one of the authors on my automatic-buy list.  I think I actually may have a couple of her books around the house I haven't read yet; that won't be the case for much longer because I am going to round them all up and move them to the top of the TBR pile.  Well done, Ms. Rice, I don't know how I can stand waiting for the next two weeks! Note to family:  Gift certificates make a good birthday presents (mine being in 11 days :-) <br />	2005-06-06
US	53080622	R1JYZ3DN1INE5M	0451214102	402177890	Quality of Care	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Exceptional!	I like these NAL Accent books.  They're trade paperback size and on the bottom it says \\"Fiction for the Way We Live\\" - Other authors in this line include a favorite of mine, Lisa Wingate; and several books I have in my TBR pile.  I even like the feel of this book.  The smooth pages, the size.   I also like the conversation guide in the back which includes an interview with the author as well as a discussion guide. I do admit to sometimes reading the conversation guide before the book, allowing for spoilers sometimes, but it has never ruined my enjoyment of the book itself. <br /> <br />I am a sucker for a good medical story and this is a doozy.  Letts, a midwife herself, writes about Dr. Clara Raymond an obstetrician who is on-call but busy with another patient when a childhood friend  (Lydia) who is 34 weeks pregnant arrives in labor and delivery.  Lydia happened to marry Clara's former live-in boyfriend, Gordon but Clara has lost touch with the two until they show up rather unexpectedly at the hospital.  Lydia has vague symptoms but since Clara is busy with the other patient, goes unattended by other than the nursing staff for a brief period of time.  Soon things go tragically wrong and eventually Clara ends up taking a trip to her childhood home in California to find answers regarding her own past. This book is really well done and is a great debut by an author to watch.  The California portion of the book takes place on a horse ranch and it says in the bio that the author is not only a midwife but a former competitive equestrian.  I enjoyed nearly everything about this book and my only big complaint is that the book wasn't longer.  For those of you who are tired of the run-of-the-mill women's fiction or coming-of-age stories, I would highly recommend QUALITY OF CARE for a great chance of pace.  This is an exceptional read and I can't wait to see what the author comes up with next.  It can't be too soon for me. <br />	2005-03-18
US	53080622	R2O9RPQLF2XRPQ	0767915305	315577385	The Sex Lives of Cannibals: Adrift in the Equatorial Pacific	Books	5	114	123	N	N	Read this book!	You know how you feel when you've just finished a really good book and want to tell everyone you know about it?  That is how I feel about THE SEX LIVES OF CANNIBALS.  During the first few chapters I was laughing out loud so much and reading passages to my husband so often that he mentioned he wouldn't even have to read the book.  However since he formerly lived in the Marshall Islands, this book hits home to him and he could hardly wait until I was done to grab it from my hands. <br /> <br />Maarten and Sylvia have no idea what they're getting themselves into when Sylvia agrees to a two-year contact to work on Tarawa, a remote island in the equatorial Pacific islands also known as Kiribas (The Gilbert Islands). <br /> <br />This was LOL funny in so many places! Maarten's turn of a phrase is so clever that he makes one laugh in the face of a nearly intolerable situation living on this remote island - part of which is so crowded it rivals Hong Kong in population density. The 20th century wasn't kind to these islanders. Their unique culture juxtaposed with the creations of the 20th century is very nearly ruining their culture. But Troost is able to find nearly everything funny (even though one wonders if he felt it was that funny at the moment) including the bowel habits of the natives. On the back of the book in Maarten's brief bio, it is revealed that he and is wife are living in California. One can only hope that he is becoming the writer for a sit-com. He makes other authors of humor/travel memoir seem dull in comparison. If I would compare him to anyone it would be Erma Bombeck-the way he is able to find hilarity in even the most mundane things. <br /> <br />This book deserves to be a bestseller and hopefully by word of mouth it will be.	2005-02-28
US	53080622	R14QR4SZBZGRJK	0451213157	365269574	Coyote Dream	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Very moving read.	Where do I begin?   This book reeled me in from the first page.   Sarah Friedman, a 30-something Jewish girl from New York who is currently in a relationship with a boyfriend (David) that's pretty much going nowhere, offers to take her ailing father's place for an annual art-buying trip to the Southwest.  While in a store in Santa Fe, she discovers a beautiful necklace and even though her father's gallery doesn't sell jewelry, she is so enamored of this piece that the buys it and then tracks down the artist who made it, Ben Lonefeather.   On her way to find Ben, Sarah loses control of her car and it crashes into a boulder in the desert - several miles from Ben's remote home.  Being so out of the way, her cell phone has no service, so faced with the decision to either walk to Ben's home two miles away or two go back to the main road (a distance of about three miles) Sarah treks in her brand-new, fancy cowgirl boots on to Ben's house. By the time she gets there she can barely walk due to the bloodied blisters on her feet.  The town's only mechanic being away for a few days, no motel available, and no public transportation, Ben reluctantly allows Sarah to stay at her place until she can get her car fixed and be on her way.    <br /> <br />What she finds at Ben's house are three young coyotes he has rescued, a treasure trove of art and sculpture by the talented Mr. Lonefeather, and a complicated and lonely man in need of some tender loving care.    But Sarah can't stay forever and after a little over a week she is forced to return home to New York, grateful for her experience in Navajo country and leaving part of her heart behind.   Soon though the time she spent in Arizona is little more than a memory and her boyfriend is finally ready to commit.  Of course the reader is left knowing the relationship between Sarah and David is all wrong, but will Sarah realize it before it's too late???   <br /> <br />There is so much more to tell, but I being afraid of spoilers, I will just say this was a very moving read, beautifully written, and very satisfying.   I loved it and hope that the author has another book coming out very soon.    <br />	2005-02-05
US	53080622	R1U9VIRRAZS1LE	0375708278	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A compelling read	I've had this book in my TBR stack for several years now, and have even started to read it a couple of times. Whey it \\"took\\" better this time than the others I don't know, but I do know that I couldn't put it town.  In a detailed account, Larson tells the story of the devastating Galveston hurricane of 1900 complete with details of the history of the forecasting of storms (did you know that for a time forecasters were forbidden to use the word \\"tornado\\" when forecasting a severe storm for fear of panicking people?), the ineptness of the system, the arrogance of forecasters, and the politics that came into play.   Interwoven with the history of hurricanes, and this hurricane in particular, Larson recounts the tragic stories of victims and survivors.  In light of the recent devastating tsunami in south Asia, the book becomes of even more interest.  There have been a lot of stories about natural disasters, but few have made bestseller status as this one has, and it justly deserved its place on the bestseller lists.  If you haven't read this book yet, what are you waiting for?  Erik Larson really knows how to hold the reader in his grip.  Very much worth reading. <br />	2005-02-05
US	53080622	R1WFMH1GEN6E77	0743418735	194962038	Perfect Match	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	One of Picoult's Best!	WOW!  Jodi Picoult has done it again.  This was a powerful novel.  There were so many twists and turns I was getting whiplash from all the shocking surprises.  And I never saw the ending coming - something that has become quite a hallmark for Jodi Picoult books.  I wasn't sure I would be comfortable reading about sexual assault on a young child and in less talented hands readers might have a really difficult time dealing with the subject matter.  However emotion should be Picoult's middle name and she is masterfully tells this story in such a way you are disgusted by the crime, but simply unable to stop reading.  One has to wonder what they would have done in Nina's shoes.  She certainly had her faults, but one thing you can't fault her for is the love for her son.  This book would be great for book groups to read as there is so much here for thoughtful discussion.  Another book that further justifies Picoult's place as one of my favorite authors.	2005-02-05
US	53080622	R36KGZ1VJJHPXC	039915230X	903579325	We Are All Fine Here	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A fantastic debut - We want more!!!	<br />When I first read a review of this book, I thought this is a book I have to have as it sounds interesting and the author lives in the town where I lived for the majority of the 1990s. So when my husband was near a local bookstore a few hours later, I asked him to pick it up for me.  I was surprised when he got it home and it was so, well, small.   I thought I had wasted my money on this tiny little book that I didn't know much about. I had even thought of returning it. <br /> <br />But this was an amazing little book.   It was so full of stark reality and LOL funny in some places.  She had a dark sense of humor which I really enjoyed. Basically, Julia is a woman caught between two men - Jim, the one she married after she got pregnant with his child 16 years previously and Ray, her college sweetheart who she has never gotten out of her mind. When he calls her and asks her to accompany him to the wedding of old friends, she jumps at the chance not only to see many people she's lost touch with, but to spend time with Ray-her true love.  But when she gets pregnant and doesn't know who the father might be as she also had one of her rare sexual encounters with her husband during this same time, things get, well, complicated.   <br /> <br />Mary Guterson, sister of Snow Falling on Cedars author David Guterson, has an acerbic wit, and is often sarcastic as well as blunt as she writes in Julia's point of view.   My only complaint is that the book could have been longer and suffered from a few typos that threw me out of the story; but those are minor quibbles in the bigger scheme of things.  I will be waiting with baited breath for her next book <br />	2005-01-29
US	53080622	R2JHK11V0PDCWZ	0060760443	270315209	The Reading Group: A Novel	Books	5	73	80	N	N	A BOOKLOVERS DREAM READ	I adored this book! Any booklover should. I loved how <br />each book was discussed (pro and con)and how they were able to relate the books read to their life experiences and the things that were going on in their lives right at the time. <br /> <br />For instance with the last book, GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING at the book discussion one of the characters says \\"I wish they would put what the book was about on the back. It's really off-putting when it's just quotes. You want to know what the story is about, not whether it's won loads of prizes or critical acclaim. That just makes it pretentious, doesn't it? This is a classic example of a book I would never have picked up if it hadn't been for the reading group.\\" (something I agree with as a reader). <br /> <br />I should have marked all the passages in the book that had me nodding in agreement, the aforementioned was just one of them. The fact that not all the members had a chance to read each book was really great as well - just like my own f2f book and many online books. <br /> <br />Although the character of Clare wasn't as clearly fleshed out as the others, I found myself feeling that I knew each of these women. The book is told not only from the POV of the reading groups members, but others in their lives as well. There are some real surprises here and everything isn't as what it seems originally. Dealing with such domestic issues as infertility, teenage pregnancy, caring for an elderly parent, adult sibling issues, adultery, boredom, caring for young children, the women in the book deal with many of the same things we do everyday. <br /> <br />This is the best women's friendship book I have ever <br />read and I have read (and enjoyed) many. <br /> <br />Just to entice you the books read and discussed are: <br /> <br />Heartburn by Nora Ephron <br />I Capture the Castle by Dodie Smith <br />Atonement by Ian McWan <br />The Woman who Walked into Doors by Roddy Doyle <br />Guppies for Tea by Marika Cobbold <br />MyAntonia by Willa Cather <br />The Memory Box by Margaret Forster <br />Eden Close by Anita Shreve <br />An Instance of the Fingerpost by Iain Pears <br />Rebecca by Daphne DuMaurier <br />The Alchemist by Paul Coelho <br />Girl with a Pearl Earring by Tracy Chevalier <br /> <br />I own and/or have read, all but four of the books and plan on picking up the others (The Woman who Walked into Doors, Guppies for Tear, The Memory Box and Eden Close). <br /> <br />Read this book - I guarantee you won't be sorry you did!	2005-01-06
US	53080622	R34LDIQW4L3DGM	0553573225	606701643	Home Fires	Books	5	19	19	N	N	WHAT AN EMOTIONAL READ!!	This must have been the beginning of the realization of the talent of Luanne Rice. Written 10 years ago, this book is a tiny bit dated already in that there are no use of cell phones, but overall the book is an emotional read that is hard to put down. <br /> <br />Anne Davis is still reeling from the death of her four-year-old daughter and the abandonment by her husband when she returns to the island home where she was raised.  She hasn't been there very long when a fire breaks out.  Anne escapes to safety but rushes back into the house to retrieve something.  What is it that she would risk her life to save?   Fireman Thomas Devlin risks his own life to save Anne who is uninjured. Somewhat of a recluse, Thomas has been living on the island after having been unable to safe his own wife in a fire in which he was terribly scarred.  <br /> <br />Despite accusing looks from those who think she was responsible for her daughter's death, Anne settles into island life where she is close to her sister Gabrielle and her niece, Maggie, a teenager who is on her own downward spiral.   <br /> <br />Soon both the woman who is scarred on the inside and the man who is scarred on the outside find themselves attracted to one another.   <br /> <br />This is a short (312-page) book so it is hard to write more without including spoilers.  But suffice to say, things do not always go smoothly for Thomas and Anne.   In addition, Anne is mentoring her niece Maggie, who is constantly being tempted to continue a life that will take her right into the hands of danger.  <br /> <br />Thomas is one of the most gentle, sweetest men ever.  His love and consideration and respect for Anne is almost palpable.   Anne's pain over losing her daughter is equally as palpable.   One begins to wonder though if they will ever be able to find a future together, especially with Anne's contrite husband back in the picture. <br /> <br />Luanne Rice has written an unforgettable novel set on the New England coast which is sure to make my top 10 of the year; I can't believe I didn't read it earlier. <br />	2004-12-18
US	53080622	R39CHU7P9X55CI	1570719586	937665116	God-Shaped Hole	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A great book for Generation Xers	When Beatrice \\"Trixie\\" Jordan was 12, a fortune teller told her that her one true love would die young and leave her all alone.  Now it's 15 years later and the successful young LA jewelry designer has had several relationships but no \\"true love\\" until she impulsively answers ad in the \\"males wanting females\\" section of the LA Weekly.   There she meets writer Jacob Grace.  It doesn't take her very long to know that he is the one for her.   Not that things go very smoothly.  They both bring a lot of baggage into the relationship.    <br /> <br />This was a different little book.   I did enjoy meeting Jacob and Trixie's friends, hearing about what young adults in LA are doing and where they are going these days.   But all the emotional baggage they had (mainly abandonment by their fathers) really bogged the story down.   Does the fortune teller's prediction come true?   Well, that would be a big spoiler.   I think for someone who is closer to the age of these characters (instead of the age of their parents) would likely enjoy this more and I will be passing this along to my daughters to read.  There was nothing really all that wrong with it, the writing was good, the pacing great and I read it in one sitting, but the subject matter and like I said the emotional baggage of the characters just made it not exactly the book for me <br />	2004-12-02
US	53080622	R3R1TQFPCGOX6J	0345450914	913925647	The Seduction of Water (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	THE BOOK FOR YOU IF YOU LIKE GOTHICS!	This book is written in present tense - and I usually avoid these like the plague --  but after just a couple of pages, I didn't even notice it any more, I was so into the story.  Iris Greenfeder is a woman in her mid 30s, as aspiring writer and professor who is the daughter of a well-known fantasy author who died suddenly after only having the second book of a trilogy completed.  She is contacted by her mother's agent who is sure there is a third book somewhere.  Circumstances allow Iris to spend the summer at the hotel on the Hudson River where she was raised where she will spend time looking for the manuscript.  There's romance (Iris has been \\"involved\\" with a man for the last ten years and then meets a younger man - and ex-con- who is one of her students).  There is Irish folk legend (the story of the Selkie which is the foundation for Iris' mother's books), mystery involving the disappearance of items stolen in WWII, and an almost-gothic feel to the book during the part that's set in the hotel.  Even though I had figured out one of the \\"big\\" surprises very early on, the writing and the story kept me reading into the wee hours. Despite the fact that the ending was pretty melodramatic and a bit over the top,  I really loved this book and plan on reading the author's book THE LAKE OF DEAD LANGUAGES soon and will buy her third book very soon.	2004-11-28
US	53080622	R3E4JHQ06S5CVJ	0060959355	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	READING RARELY GETS BETTER THAN THIS	Two stories interlinked - one in the 1800s and the other in the 1930s.   Beautifully - I mean beautifully told.  I keep thinking I want to do more serious writing, but then I read something like this and know there is no way I could ever top the quality of the prose in this story. The story was compelling (I really enjoyed the ghost aspect) and really enjoyed the tragic story of Hannah and Conny.   I was already to enjoy the story of Claris and Danial but their story turned out to be quite a downer.   There is a mystery in this story was well as Hannah tried to find out exactly who it was that murdered Danial Haskell in the late 1800s, his daughter Sallie being tried and acquitted, the murder remaining unsolved.  At any rate I will be searching for other books by this author ASAP.   She is that good.  One of the best at putting a story together and for using beautiful and meaningful prose I've ever read.	2004-11-27
US	53080622	R13PCTF9W64CO9	0316739111	418348061	Sudden Sea: The Great Hurricane of 1938	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Wonderful Book!	I admit it.  I am a severe weather junkie.  Hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, tidal waves, earthquakes-any drama wrought by nature appeals to me.  In fact, I found this book by accident when looking for a book on the 1888 blizzard.<br /><br />Many people who write nonfiction stories such as this rely on their experience as a journalist (i.e.; Sebastian Junger who wrote The Perfect Storm).  Instead, Scotti, a fiction author of thrillers, sets the book up like a novel.  Yes, there are a lot of meteorological details but it's the human drama that she succeeds with best. Using newspaper accounts and interviews with survivors, Scotti describes the \\"heartbreak,  heroism, the incredible luck and the tragic misfortune of individuals and families.\\"One of the reasons it took me so long to read this book was that I was continually looking up pictures and info on the internet and looking at maps.  This storm wreaked havoc on all of New England, but was particularly devastating to Rhode Island, wiping one little community completely off the map.  Scotti takes these personal stories and weaves them together in a gripping way that keeps the reader turning the page at a feverish pace by the end trying to find out the fate of the families she writes about.	2004-11-24
US	53080622	R1V0IZ5RH4X8RB	037325069X	126584262	Mean Season (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not your usual chick lit	First of all I want to say this:  Run, don't walk, to your nearest bookstore and get this book!    And keep reading it.   It is not mundane as the beginning would have you believe.  <br /> <br />What was there not to like about this book?  First of all, the main character, Leanne Gitlin is so real.   Probably one of the most \\"real\\" characters I've ever read about.  Her emotions, desires, and dreams were spot on.   Leanne has been president of the Joshua Reed fan club for eight years ever since he was a soap opera star and she was a high-school senior. Now Joshua is one of Hollywood's leading men and after all these years she has an opportunity to meet him.  Turns out that he is truly a great actor - all that charm was just for the screen whereas in real life he is more of a Colin Farrell-type character, IOW a \\"bad boy.\\"   The limo picks up Leanne in her little town of Pinecob, West Virginia and take her to Harpers Ferry where she meet's Josh's agent, publicist and Josh himself.  Trouble is, every other word is the \\"F\\" word, he has a surly attitude, and a problem with alcohol.   In fact, that very evening gets a DUI when he \\"borrows\\" the limo and takes himself on a little drive to the county where Leanne lives - and where she works in the county clerk's office.  This is Josh's second DUI and he is placed on house arrest for 90 days --- at Leanne's home where she lives with her mother and her brother Beau Ray who although nearly 30 is brain-injured and has a mind more of a six-year-old.    Suffice to say, things do not go smoothly for Josh or Leanne.  He isn't happy about being in Pinecob and Leanne isn't exactly happy having him there.    <br /> <br />Now, in most books this would turn be a romance between Josh and Leanne, but not this one.  They do become friends, but her eye is on Max Campbell, an old family friend and assistant manager of the local Winn-Dixie.   <br /> <br />This is a Red Dress Ink book - the Chick Lit line - but I wouldn't call this your ordinaryChick Lit book which is usually set in a big city with the main character having a fancy schmancy job.  This is as small town as it gets and Leanne's job isn't very exciting (although she does dream of one day becoming a lawyer). There is so much depth to this book and to the character of Leanne.  The entire time I kept thinking what a wonderful movie this would make.   Colin Farrell as Josh, Renee Zellweger or Natalie Portman as Leanne, haven't decided who for Max - a young Robert Redford type or perhaps Brad Pitt! This is one of the best books I've read all year and if it doesn't get optioned for a movie I am going to be sorely disappointed.  If any book has ever screamed \\"successful movie\\" this one does.       <br />	2004-11-24
US	53080622	RRIR2GAWE09GN	0380814781	68502016	Dear Stranger, Dearest Friend: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A must read for women everywhere	<br /> <br />I ordered this from Amazon after reading recommendations on one of my Email groups about this.   I got in the mail on Saturday after and sat down to look at it, intending just to merely take a quick look.  I started reading it and couldn't put it down!   This book just completely sucked me in.  It's told completely via emails between a two-year cancer survivor (Susan) and a woman she befriends because of an internet post (Lara) who has just found a breast lump.  It chronicles the story of their budding friendship and Lara's struggle to not only find a diagnosis but then through treatment and Susan being with her to support her every step of the way via emails.  This book should be required woman for every woman over the age of 40 - actually even before then.  The information obtained in this book is pretty up to date (considering it was written four years ago) and is a great way to educate yourself about breast cancer. With the statistics being that one out of every eight woman will develop breast cancer the chances that either you or someone you know could develop this disease is mighty high.  This book not only contains things helpful for someone suffering from breast cancer, but things helpful for supporting them through their struggle.  These women became very real to me; probably more vividly since the author is also a breast cancer survivor.   Read this book - and buy an extra for a friend, the library, your local breast cancer support group.   This is important! <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-18
US	53080622	R1H9I6ALP8HP2V	0446691798	939348220	Nights in Rodanthe	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Typical mediocre, maudlin Sparks	Typical Sparks superficial tearjerker;  divorced woman has one-weekend stand with man she has just met, they fall madly in love immediately and she thinks he is the best thing that has ever happened to her.  <br /> <br />Very predictable story, not particularly engaging or well-written.  I predicted the death (this is, after all a Nicholas Sparks book) as well as the gift having to do with Adrienne's father. As in other of Sparks' books, he leaves the reader feeling somewhat cheated probably due to the constraints of length.  I keep thinking I'd like to see Sparks write a longer book, but I suppose when you can make millions of dollars for only 225 pages, why write a book that's twice as long? <br /> <br />It was supposed to be some sort of parable to relate to her newly-widowed daughter but in that respect if fell pretty flat.  The best I can say about it was that it was a very quick read. I don't give very many C's in my rating system because if a book is just mediocre I often do not finish it.  I even found myself skimming the last of this one.  If you thought The Bridges of Madison County was the best book you've ever read, give this one a try.  If not, it's a miss at best. <br />	2004-08-03
US	53080622	R3B6TTNM1SCFA6	0778320189	822430253	The Four Seasons	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Spectacular Read	This is a book for anyone who had a sister or, like me, wished they had a sister.<br />Jilly, Birdie, and Rose - ¾ of the four Season sisters are gathered at their childhood home in Evanston, Illinois after the death of the fourth sister, Merry. It is Merry's last wish that will have the other three on an adventure which will not only have them searching for the child Jilly gave up for adoption 26 years earlier, but for themselves at the same time.<br />Jilly who left home years ago for elegance and wealth in Europe has returned for good. Despite her fancy clothes and furs, she is broke and all alone. Seemingly without purpose in life, her modeling career over, she really doesn't know who else to turn to but her sisters. Her whole life is a sham - will she be able to tell her sisters how broke she really is? Will she ever find the love of her life? And will her search for the daughter she gave up for adoption be successful?<br />The second sister, Birdie, has become a physician. Always the studious one, she has married Dennis Connor, a man who Jilly dated as a teenager, and has a teenage daughter, Hannah, who in typical teenage fashion is giving her mother a rather difficult time. Birdie's husband, too, is giving her grief. They don't seem to have the closeness they once had, and when Birdie insists on accompanying Jilly on her search for her birth daughter, Dennis gives her an ultimatum - come home now or our marriage is over. Birdie still chooses to side with her sister. <br />Third sister, Rose has been living at home taking care of the youngest, Merry, after the death of their parents. She really didn't mind and has juggled her caretaking duties with word processing at home. Rose doesn't get out much but she has traveled the world and met many people via the internet. She has been corresponding with one person in particularly, a truckdriver who calls himself &quot;Dannyboy.&quot; She hasn't let her sister in on the fact that in his emails, Dannyboy seems to becoming more and more romantically interested. What will happen when Dannyboy insists on meeting Rose?<br />Event though the fourth sister, Merry, has died by the time the book begins, she is as much a character as any of other others and, in fact some might argue she is the most important character. She becomes known to the reader through a series of flashbacks and via her sisters' recollections. All that is known to the reader in the beginning is that Merry had a childhood accident leaving her forever a child. It is her final request that brings the sisters together on a quest which makes up the second half of the book - a quest which will definitely, for all of them, reveal more than any of them had believed.<br />There are so many wonderful and realistic scenes in this book that it's hard to know where to begin. Each sister is so different from the other, it's hard to believe they were raised by the same set of parents. Each of them too is still baring the guilt of Merry's accident - each of them feeling somehow responsible.<br />Overall, I very much enjoyed this book. And although I would tend to view this book more as women's fiction because of its depth, the fact that there are three characters finding love instead of just one, and the fact that the main focus of the book appears to be the growth of each character from within -- but with finding love as a consequence of that growth. The use of flashbacks proved very effective in getting to know the characters. And that's the author's strength - characterization - and she does it admirably well, giving each character their individual strengths and weaknesses, and each their individual &quot;voice&quot; as well. <br />This book would appeal to readers who enjoyed THE SAVING GRACES by Patricia Gaffney, THE HOUSE ON OLIVE STREET by Robyn Carr, TALK BEFORE SLEEP by Elizabeth Berg, and even Mary Alice Monroe's previous book, THE BOOK CLUB. <br />I found it to be one of the best books I've read so far this year and highly recommend it as I believe it would appeal to readers of women's fiction and romance as well.	2004-03-19
US	53080622	R37XO9XHS2DK1L	155652532X	829916644	Katherine (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	290	301	N	N	The Best Book I Have Ever Read	I am so glad this book is now more readily available. It is my FAVORITE READ OF ALL TIME. It is a love story of epic proportions unlike anything I've ever read or experienced. This is truly a real-life fairytale.<br />Set in the mid 14th C. Katherine de Roet is a convent-raised young woman who, with her sister, comes under the care of Queen Philippa (wife of Edward III), and despite being without dowry marries the rather difficult Sir Hugh Swynford. Eventually she becomes the mistress of Philippa and Edward III's son John of Gaunt, and after bearing him four children, becoming his wife. The children's births are eventually legitimized and John and Katherine eventually are the forebears of both the Tudor and Stuart dynasties.<br />But this story is of the relationship between Katherine and John and the many twists and turns it takes before these lovers can be together. When Katherine turns 15 the Queen summons her from the convent to Windsor and she soon gathers much attention for her beauty. When Sir Hugh Swynford attempts to ravish her, the King's third son, John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster comes to her rescue. Hugh gets out of the situation by saying he wishes to marry the fair young maiden. Sir Hugh is a rather disagreeable and homely man, but it is seen as a step up for young Katherine, without dowry, to marry him. She does but very reluctantly. Meanwhile she is befriended by the Duke's wife, Blanche, and returns her friendship for which young Katherine is eventually richly rewarded.<br />Katherine and Hugh go to live at his mismanaged estate, Kettlethorpe, near Lincoln which is not too far from the Duke and Duchess of Lancaster's favorite home of Bolingbroke Castle. Katherine is not exactly happy but accepts her life. But when she befriends Blanche again and then sits with her as she lays dying from the black death, her whole life changes.<br />To give more details than this is to rob the first-time reader of the discoveries they will read. It is a story to particularly savor as when the Duke tells Katherine &quot;She is my heart's blood. My life. I want nothing but her.&quot; Talk about a Cinderella story! Those better versed in English history of the mid to late 14th C than I am will realize just what is happening in some of the dramatic historical scenes than I did. <br />But even after Katherine and the Duke are finally together, all does not go well. Seton details the history of this time beautifully and, sometimes, painfully.<br />Seton includes quotes from Chaucer (who was married to Katherine's sister Philippa). It is also surmised Chaucer may have had Katherine in mind for some of his passages, particularly in &quot;Troilus and Criseyde.&quot;<br />This book made slow reading for me as every few pages I was either picking up a historical reference to read more or searching on the internet. I do have to warn readers though, keep the hankies handy. I could have used an entire box and even woke my husband up with my sobbing. Most of these tears were tears of joy though.<br />Readers who enjoy their books both historically accurate and very romantic are sure to enjoy this beautiful story.	2004-03-19
US	53080622	R28OOGW6PZRVRO	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A great book for bibliophiles	I spent my third Saturday night in a row reading until the wee hours.  I read SO MANY BOOKS, SO LITTLE TIME by Sara Nelson and enjoyed it for the most part.  There are books that she has recommended that I want to read and will be making a list of books for myself. I recognized myself in so many places!   The description of her bedroom for instance with her side of the bed versus her husbands -- though my husband reads, he doesn't read in bed much and doesn't keep stacks of books next to his bed but he does have one book on his nightstand that I put there  couple of months ago when he was wanting something to read. At least now he does have a TBR pile. Before I met him he was a big reader but bought a book, read it and then bought another book; whereas my side of the bed looks pretty much like how Nelson describes hers with stacks of books everywhere. Also when she was talking about how she now gives herself permission to stop reading a book if she isn't into it and start something else; I do the same thing. I also long ago made a rule for myself like she does that if I didn't read the entire book, I don't review it.  I sure don't agree with the rule she has made for herself about taking one book and one book only for long weekends or on plane trips.  The first time she did this I thought, \\"Oh no. What if she doesn't like the book?\\"   Sure enough, she didn't like and book and had to scramble for something to read.  I usually spend more time trying to figure out what books I'm taking somewhere than I do what clothes I'm taking!  But overall, I enjoyed the book, would recommend it to others, and hope that she is writing a sequel because I want to read about more of her book selections.	2004-03-14
US	53080622	R3EIBOLA23EU71	0312993560	287100403	The Tea Rose: A Novel (The Tea Rose Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of the best reads in years	I had this one on my bookshelf for well over a year before I finally read it and I have to say I do  wish I had read it sooner.  Similar in feel to early Barbara Taylor Bradford, it is a wonderful historical saga with many layers.  Fiona Finnegan, from an Irish family living in the Whitechapel area of London has lofty dreams with her childhood love, Joe Bristow.  After a series of tragedies finds her fleeing London to go to NYC, she establishes a tea empire, then returns to London to exact revenge on former employer responsible for death of father. This was a wonderful page turner with sympathetic characters and a wonderful love story.  Highly recommended. I look forward to more books by this talented author.	2004-03-13
US	53080622	R1MKO2ZXVL946N	2290313580	835730398	Mrs Miracle	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Absolutely delightful!	Although this is definitely *not* for those who like their romance laden with steamy sex, it is a light, enjoyable read that would appeal to just about everyone--a great book! Those who liked Debbie's angel books should definitely not miss this.<br />Seth Webster is a widower with twin boys. His life has been on hold since the death of his wife, Pamela, four years previously. His six-year-old sons have just recently returned to live with him after staying with their maternal grandparents for the past four years. In the brief period of time since he has had his sons back, he has gone through one housekeeper after another. The boys are hellions, to put it mildly.<br />As Seth is at his wits end one evening -- the house is a shambles, dinner is a disaster and the boys are little terrors -- who should appear on his doorstep but Mrs. Emily Merkle. She says she has been sent by the agency as his new housekeeper/nanny. She immediately comes in, restores order to the house, and serves dinner (a great chicken pot pie she had brought with her -- Debbie's description makes the reader's mouth water -- recipe included in book ). The boys end up calling her \\"Mrs. Miracle.\\"<br />Reba Maxwell owns a travel agency in a strip mall. She has had her eye on the handsome, well-dressed man who frequently shops at the grocery store near her agency. She is fighting demons of her own. She hasn't spoken to her sister in four years -- ever since she found her sister in bed with her (Reba's) fiance' just before their wedding. She blames her sister - Vicki - for everything and even though Vicki has now married someone else and has a small daughter.<br />It isn't until Mrs. Miracle brings Seth and his sons to church one day that Reba finds out who he is and that he's a widower. Then, after a turn of events, Reba finds herself in charge of the church children's Christmas program. Soon Seth asks Reba out for dinner.<br />There are several subplots in this story involving Seth's in-laws, Sharon & Jerry, who after 40 years of marriage are having serious problems; and Harriett, the church pianist and busybody.<br />If I had any complaint it would be that the book just wasn't long enough!  I had a hard time putting it down once I started and, in fact, awoke at 2:30 in the morning and picked it up and finished it. An inspiring read. Enjoy!	2004-03-05
US	53080622	R2T2460OACW0PJ	0451411285	106947774	Sing Me Home	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Great book from a first time author!!	This is a first time author but the book reads like one from someone much more experienced.  It deals with a young widow still reeling from the death of her husband (and her subsequent miscarriage) and the marriage of convenience she enters into with a country music star (in order to help care for his two pre-teen children so he can get full custody of them). Very enjoyable.	2004-03-05
US	53080622	RWLRPE464DQKP	0380704161	409225574	Through a Glass Darkly	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A fabulous read!	Yes, Yes, Yes!! THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY is so good. I can't believe it took me nearly ten years to get to this book. I was absolutely enthralled with the book and put it up there with the likes of some of my other all-time favorite historical fiction such as THE PROUD BREED by Celeste DeBlasis and KATHERINE by Anya Seton.<br />It takes place in London and Paris in the early 1700s. 15 year-old Barbara Ackerly is the granddaughter of the Duke and Duchess of Tamworth and has been raised in proper society standards. Her mother is attempting to arrange a marriage between her and an old family friend, Roger Montgeoffrey, Lord Devane. Roger is 42-years-old and Barbara has had a crush on him since she was about 10. Barbara's mother, Diana, a beautiful but nasty woman who likes to sleep around and is attempting to arrange the marriage in order to help pay off her enormous debts. Roger is interested in Barbara because by marrying her he will get the deed to some property he wants to develop. (Barbara's mother is deeply in debt due to her estranged husband's drinking and gambling). Barbara is excited at the prospect of marrying Roger. She just knows she can make him love her. However, Barbara's aunt has other ideas. She wants the property for her son, Tony, who is the latest Duke of Tamworth and does everything in her power so that the Barbara/Roger wedding does not become a reality. The story goes on from there. To tell much more would rob the reader of the pleasure of discovering all its drama for themselves. The characters are so real that I feel I know them. This is more of a historical novel than a romance. Sex scenes are not detailed.<br />I have to give this a 5***** rating. It goes on my keeper shelf and on my list of favorite books of all time.<br />I did try to read the sequel, but could never really get into it and gave up fairly early.  I may try again later.	2004-03-05
US	53080622	R2DWE3H0RAJ52	1578562775	519589364	The Forgiving Hour	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful story	Claire Conway has finally made a life for herself twelve years after being divorced. After years of hardship she has a job she loves, a comfortable home, and a man who is interested in her. Although she has mixed feelings when her son, Dakota announces he is engaged, she is anxious to meet his fiancee, Sara Jennings, a woman seven years her son's elder. <br />Claire welcomes Sara into her home but when Sara spies a photograph a nightmare begins. For Claire and Sara discover that Sara was the &quot;other woman&quot; who broke up Claire's marriage. Claire had only seen her once and didn't know her name; at his mother's urging due to the intense bitterness she has for his father, Dakota had legally changed his first name to his middle name and his last name to Claire's maiden name so Sara had no clue Dakota was related to her former lover, Dave Porter.<br />Even though Sara had broken up with Dave as soon as she discovered he was married, the damage was already done. She felt used and was reluctant to give her heart to any man, dropping out of college and moving to Denver, away from the memories.<br />Twelve years later, Sara completes her degree and moves home to Boise. Dakota has known her family for some time as they go to his church. Claire doesn't share Dakota's Christian beliefs and, in fact, is kind of embarrassed by them. She continues to believe that the break-up of her marriage was the worse thing in her life and has admonished Dakota to never speak of his father -- a promise he has kept to his mother.<br />Can Dakota and Sara's relationship survive the revelation that she had an affair with his father? Will Claire be able to overcome her hatred? Will any of these people find the happiness they deserve?<br />Robin Lee Hatcher makes the move from historical romance to Christian contemporary romance with this inspirational story of love and forgiveness that readers will find difficult to put down once they've started. It is difficult to put into words just howpowerful this story is. Suffice to say it will be a keeper. Readers will want to buy one for themselves and others for gifts for others. Brava, Ms. Hatcher!	2004-03-05
US	53080622	R38HKSBK1W6CPU	0553580108	14381671	Color of the Wind	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Simply Magnificent!!	Baird Northcross is a remittance man - the son of English aristocracy sent to the wilds of Wyoming Territory in exile after being responsible for the death of his cousin and in general a disappointment to his family. His aristocratic upbringing has done little to prepare him to run Sugar Creek, the family's cattle ranch. Cocky and standoffish, Baird is the antithesis of your usual hero. Awaiting the arrival of his wife and children, he is shocked to discover his sister-in-law, Ardith Merritt accompanying his offspring, bringing the sad news of his wife's death.<br />Ardith, a children's book author and illustrator living in Boston, has no intention of staying in Wyoming. All she plans to do is to simply deliver her two nephews and niece to their father. But when she arrives at Sugar Creek and finds Baird isn't prepared for his children, she has no choice but to stay until they're settled in. She does so reluctantly after all, Baird had betrayed her years ago when, on the day they were to wed, he ran off to Gretna Green with her younger sister. Besides, she is more than just a little bit interested in her publisher and friend, Gavin Rawlinson.<br />Baird is as ill-prepared to deal with his children as he is with the ranch. He has never been around them much in fact, wasn't even present at their births - his children being named China, Khymer, and Durban - after the places their father was when they were born. He finds Ardith rigid and cold, staid and proper -- not the fun young woman he once knew.<br />Ardith isn't quite prepared to deal with the children either. She has little or no experience and is always afraid of saying the wrong thing or doing something that's not quite right. But she comes to care very much for them - and eventually, to her surprise, to the wild west and to the children's father.<br />Baird is an enigma - from the English aristocracy he has never been content to remain just from the manor born, he is an adventurer. The wild west, much to his surprise, fits that bill just fine. While it is clear he cares for his children, he has no idea just how to show his affection. The turning point in Baird's personality for this reviewer was when he was so supportive of Ardith's drawings.<br />As expansive in its reader appeal as the wild west in which it's set, COLOR OF THE WIND is a story to savor. Elizabeth Grayson is one of the best historical writers today. Her characterizations are top rate and her storytelling ability keeps the reader turning pages at a frantic pace. She details the cattle round-up with such skill the reader gets such a sense of place they can almost smell the cattle and feel the dirt and grime. Adding to the rich texture of this book were Ardith's letters back to her publisher in Boston and the appearance of Hunter and Cassandra from Grayson's previous book, SO WIDE THE SKY. Writing a review for this book was difficult in a way, I was so excited to share the story, I could have easily made it 2 to 3 times as long. But this is a book readers should experience for themselves; a mere review simply cannot do it justice. Grayson never disappoints. I am chomping at the bit for her next book!	2004-03-05
US	53080622	R2JM5BDATE49LH	0778320170	882214233	Her Mother's Shadow	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Diane Chamberlain Does it Again!	Do you remember the last time you started a book at 9:00 PM and read all night until you finished?   I thought I was too old to do that anymore, that surely no matter how good a book was that I would fall asleep before long.   I was wrong.  Last night at about 9:00 PM I went into the bedroom to watching Trading Spaces (hubby was watching TV out in the living room) and started HER MOTHER?S SHADOW by Diane Chamberlain. Eight hours, three cans of Diet Pepsi and a bag of microwave popcorn later, I finally turned the last page (#380) and turned off the light.  I would have read faster but I did watch quite a bit of TS and SNL &lt;g&gt;.   <br />I can?t for the life of me figure out why Diane Chamberlain's books aren?t regulars on the bestseller lists (she is the second author I think this about, the other being Emilie Richards).  She is definitely on par with Kristin Hannah, Barbara Delinsky, et al.  <br />HER MOTHER?S SHADOW concludes the ?Kiss River Trilogy? that began with KEEPER OF THE  LIGHT in the early 90s (reissued last year) and continued with  KISS RIVER last year.  As much as I loved KOTL, I think I liked this one even more.   For those of you unfamiliar with this series, KOTL has one of the most powerful opening chapters I have ever read where Olivia is called to the ER to try to save the life of a woman who has been shot. She is shocked to find that the woman is Annie O?Neill ? the woman her husband has been having an affair with; a woman who does so much good in the community she is referred to as ?Saint Anne.?  So that is really Olivia?s story.  When I heard Chamberlain was writing a sequel, I thought sure the second book would be Lacey?s story ? the daughter of Annie who witnessed her murder and began a downward spiral of self-destructive behavior told in KoTL.  But KISS RIVER instead brought in a new character, Gina, who although new to Kiss River, had family ties there.  I was thrilled to know though that the third book in the trilogy would indeed be Lacey?s book.  <br />In HER MOTHER?S SHADOW, Lacey?s story is interwoven with the story of Faye Collier, a nurse in San Diego.  Her connection with Lacey and Kiss River isn?t known right away but her story is very interesting as she helps a successful physician overcome the grief of losing his wife.  Of course, Faye has a secret, one that is not revealed until much later in the book.  There are two main story lines in HMS, one of Lacey?s mother?s killer coming up for parole, and the one of  Lacey?s childhood best friend being killed in an auto accident and inexplicably putting in her will that Lacey is to be 11-year-old Mackenzie?s guardian.  <br />I am trying so hard to avoid spoilers here!   As in her other books, suffice to say there are rather shocking secrets, family relationships, and romance.  We also have appearances by characters in the other two books of the trilogy.   All of this combine for a book that is absolutely unputdownable!	2004-02-22
US	53080622	R36NNESOPBWSK2	0345445694	559443524	The Goddesses of Kitchen Avenue	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Fabulous read!	I just finished THE GODDESSES OF KITCHEN AVENUE by Barbara Samuel and knew the first thing I had to do is tell others how wonderful this book is!   To say it is brilliant is an understatement.  I've always liked her writing but this one is the best she has ever done.     I loved all these woman and was sucked into each and every one of their stories.   I have one small complaint though and that is the cover.   The cover shows several Caucasian woman in  what looks like their 30s sitting around a table.   In reality, the book features a black woman in her 80s, a mixed-race woman in her early 30s (IIRC), a white woman in her 20s, and a white woman in her 40s.   There are only a few times in the book when they're even in the same room together.  But that doesn't really take away from this wonderful story, there's romance, yes.  But there is even more.  I think the main theme of this book would be the empowerment of women.  All these women find out something about themselves and that they can be individuals with or without a man in their lives.  It is a true keeper and a book that is sure to get Barbara Samuel notice in more than just the romance community.  I would say this book is at least on par with Gaffney's THE SAVING GRACES.	2004-02-21
US	53080622	R2QZW5D4G9TB84	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Riveting and thought provoking!	Having been mildly interested in stories of the Holy Grail after a trip to Rosslyn Chapel in 1999, it was with great anticipation that I finally read THE DA VINCI CODE.  It did not disappointment me in the least.  One hallmark of a good book to me is that it makes me think and makes me read more about something I learned in the book.  I have already read two of the books mentioned in TDC (those in Teabing's library), and as a domino effect, have bought several others.  But this book is not a history book or a book on art appreciation although it does make it even more interesting if you are interested in those things.  It is a first-rate thriller.  I wasn't able to figure out the villain until it was revealed to the reader (having been totally wrong in who I had guessed it to be).  Of course the scenes at Rosslyn Chapel really came to life as I had remembered it.  My book group read this and I wholeheartedly recommend it as a book group selection. We had our best discussion ever, I shared photos of Rosslyn Chapel and Westminster Abbey while another member brought books she purchased at the Louvre.  I can't say enough good things about this book.  My husband read it right after I finished (right after he read Brown's ANGELS AND DEMONDS).  This book justly deserves all the attention it has been receiving and justly deserves its place on top of the bestseller lists.	2004-02-07
US	53080622	R1UMWYMQTJ2FAB	0743458125	667914373	Top O' the Mournin': A Passport to Peril Mystery (Passport to Peril Mysteries)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fabulous read!	I don't read a lot of mysteries but this one caught my eye because it's set in my favorite place in the entire world - Ireland.   This book took me back for several pleasurable hours. I enjoyed several laugh-out-loud moments and just adored the main characters.  Over-the-top and improbable as some other reviewers have mentioned?  Perhaps, but folks this is fiction and I can promise you a great deal of enjoyment is found in this story.  I am going to be looking for her first book,ALPINE FOR YOU (love the title!) and will be buying PASTA IMPERFECT as soon as it comes out.	2004-01-26
US	53080622	R38QR8GPRWXLR1	1551667096	93400278	The Parting Glass	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A stunning follow-up to Whiskey Island	Emilie Richards has followed up her impressive work, WHISKEY ISLAND, with another story about the irresistible Donaghue sisters.   In this one, youngest sister Peggy is featured, but we see plenty of sisters Megan and Casey as well Combining historical and contemporary elements (present day Cleveland and County Mayo Ireland, with a story about the Donaghue ancestors in Cleveland in the 1920s) this book has something for everyone.<br />As the story opens Megan is dressing for her wedding to ex-priest Niccolo Andreani.  They are in for a surprise though as at the reception, held in the family business, The Whiskey Island Saloon, a fierce storm is brewing without their knowledge --  a tornado traps the revelers in the saloon with, it seems, no way out.   But the sisters' father, Rooney, remembers passageway beneath the saloon - a tunnel used by bootleggers in the 1920s.    Tragedy is averted but what is the strange image Niccolo sees on the tunnel wall?<br />Meanwhile, Peggy has left her medical school studies to care for her young son Kieran who has been diagnosed as being autistic.   So she is off to Ireland to meet an elderly cousin, Irene, who contacted them via the internet looking for information on her father, Liam Tierney, who had disappeared in Cleveland in the 1920s.  While there Peggy meets Finn O'Malley who has abandoned his medical practice after a tragic accident took the lives of his wife and young sons two years previous, leaving him barely able to care for his surviving child, an 11-year-old daughter, Bridie,  let alone care for patients.  Peggy however has found friends in not only Irene, but in young Bridie who is so good with young Kieran.<br />Casey, having become the recent bride of high school friend Jon Kovats, is happy in her marriage but the young marriage of Megan and Niccolo is having its problems. Seems Niccolo, who had learned how to be a priest, has no idea how to be a husband and is seemingly more involved in his business venture which provides help to at-risk youth, than he is in keeping Megan happy.   When a planned weekend away gets cancelled, Megan storms out of the house and decides to visit Peggy in Ireland.  It isn't long before Casey decides Peggy and Megan can't have all the fun and she is joining them at Irene's cottage as well.<br />As Peggy struggles to help Kieran, she also hears stories from Irene who eventually admits she knows more about her father then she first led the sisters to believe. Stories of what really happened to her father, Liam, in Cleveland - and how much the families really are connected.  A story of bootlegging, and of the tragic story of the first love of the sisters' grandfather, Glen Donaghue.  <br />But there is romance in store for Peggy as well.  She helps Finn come out of the depression and guilt he has felt for the past two years, but both know they have to take it one day at a time and fear they will never have a future together.  It takes a near tragedy for them to finally find out what the future will hold.<br />I don't know how Emilie Richards does it.  She so beautifully combines several storylines not only without confusing the reader but with immediately drawing in the reader to each storyline as the are told several chapters at a time.  Not any easy feat!  I felt as if I was in County Mayo, Ireland with Peggy (or was it just wishful thinking?) and could image the settings in Cleveland as well with Richard's deft hand at description.   The characters are people the reader feels they know as well.  I was so glad I was able to read these two connected books, WHISKEY ISLAND and THE PARTING GLASS back to back, and although it isn't necessary to read WHISKEY ISLAND before reading THE PARTING GLASS, I believe your reading experience will be enhanced if you do.    THE PARTING GLASS is an absolutely first-rate read, one I couldn't put down once I started.   I can give no higher praise than to say I am going to now be reading all the Emilie Richards books I'vemissed.  Books fortunately I already have in my TBR pile.	2003-06-28
US	53080622	R14DV5DEHN3DBP	0451208617	343918132	Good Hope Road (Tending Roses Series, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	For fans of THE LOVELY BONES - Deserves more than 5 Stars!!!	Remember the last time you read a book so wonderful you wanted to tell everyone you knew about it?  One such book is GOOD HOPE ROAD which takes place in the aftermath of a tornado. The book is told in alternating first person POV by Jenilee Lane, a 21 year-old woman whose family has been called the \\"worst white trash\\" of the small town of Poetry, Missouri and of Eudora Gibson, the 78-year-old woman Jenilee saves when her house is destroyed by the tornado  The author has done a fabulous job with these characters and in telling this fabulous, fabulous story.  <br />Jenilee is stunned but unhurt as she watches a powerful tornado pass near her rural home.  As stunned as she is, she knows she has to check on her neighbors including elderly Eudora Gibson.   Jenilees father and brother have taken their truck and gone to a cattle auction so she takes the only transportation available  a tractor and stops at the Gibson farm.  What she sees shocks her  the stately old home is completely gone.  Calling for Mrs. Gibson, she finally hears noises from a nearby cellar  -- the door of which is blocked by a large tree limb.   She uses the tractor to remove the tree limb and saves the life of not only Mrs. Gibson but of little Lacy, Mrs. Gibsons six-year-old granddaughter. <br />The next day Jenilee heads out for town but on the way she picks up fragments of the lives of many of the townspeople  photographs, mementos, and letters  things she is sure someone will miss.  On her way to town she comes upon a high school classmate and the two of them make their way to the devastation that was once the town of Poetry.  <br />Even though her only medical experience has been assisting the local veterinarian, Jenilee bravely steps in and does what she needs to aide both the physically wounded and the emotionally wounded residents at the armory that has become a makeshift hospital.  Many of the people she helps have known all her life but who always thought of her as whitetrash and the victim of who-knows-what-abuse at the hands of her alcoholic father.  One by one, the townspeople see that they have been wrong about Jenilee.   After she has done all she can helping the wounded, Jenilee remembers her bag of photos.   She posts them on the walls of the armory  and in seeing pieces of the things they thought they had lost, the townspeople begin to have hope for the future.<br />Its a story of hope and of second chances for a 21-year-old woman and the elderly woman who becomes her unlikely friend, a middle-aged doctor who has lost the will to care, an elderly man who has harbored a big secret for nearly six decades, and a young couple who has become victim of the baggage the man brought into their relationship.  <br /> It's a quick read and so uplifting I needed to wipe the tears from my eyes several times. I loved it so much I am off to order this authors first book, TENDING ROSES.	2003-05-25
US	53080622	RTXM6CO4YAUQZ	1551665700	107974389	Whiskey Island	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very special read.	The Whiskey Island Saloon is a longtime favorite watering hole in Cleveland.  Run by Megan Donaghue, she is the 5th generation Irish-American to share the recipes used by her ancestor, Rosaleen Donaghue in thee 1880s.  <br />Although Megan has been running the restaurant/saloon alone, she is soon to be joined by her prodigal sisters, Casey and Peggy, who arrive one evening and are immediately welcomed by a carjacking in the saloon parking lot, which is broken up by one Niccolo Andreani who just happens to be walking in the area.  But who is the mysterious man who both Niccolo and Casey saw lurking out of darkness?  A man credited with saving lives that night?<br />Casey returns to Whiskey Island with a young child, Ashley in tow.  Not willing to talk too much about the four-year-old, why she has her, or when her mother will take her back, it is clear though that after social worker Casey is unable to prevent a tragedy at her job in Chicago, she has quit and returned to the home she left years before after an argument with her older sister, Megan.  <br />Returning with Megan is the baby of the family, Peggy.   Their mother having died shortly after Peggy was born, both Megan and Casey had helped their aunt raise her after their father's mysterious disappearance. Peggy has been working and attending medical school and her arrival home is also quite a surprise.  Why is it though that she is so reluctant to return?<br />Niccolo, who has been slightly injured in his attempt to save the three strangers, is cared for by Megan, while Peggy and Casey help little Ashley get settled.  Niccolo is immediately drawn to the capable woman who runs the saloon, and it appears that the feeling is mutual.  But will Megan feel the same way when she learns Niccolo had been a priest?<br />Jon Kovats seems to come and go in the most mysterious ways seemingly teasing Casey who is surprised to see her childhood playmate has turned into a sexy young prosecutor.  Jon has waited for years for Casey to return but he's not going to be an easy catch.  Casey isn't so sure if she wants a relationship of any kind but when she sees how caring he is with young Ashley, helping get her out of her shell, her heart just melts, as with this exchange:<br /> He lifted the doll whose dress he'd fingered and held it out to the little girl. \\"Would you like to play with her, Ashley? I  think she gets lonely sitting on the shelf.\\"<BR> Ashley frowned but she broke her silence.  \\"She has friends.\\"<BR> Jon nodded solemnly, \\"It's a well-known fact that dolls get tired of each other's company.  They need people to hold them and play with them.\\"<BR> \\"Jon, that's a very valuable doll,\\" Casey warned.<BR> \\"Not half as valuable as a little girl.\\"<br />But the story of the three Donaghue sisters isn't the only story Richards tells in WHISKEY ISLAND [Whiskey Island (the land mass) is actually a peninsula & can be found at the mouth of the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland, Ohio. A distillery was built there in 1836, hence its name. The island has suffered multiple incarnations: it has been a dump, a US Coast Guard Station, a ship graveyard, & a predominantly Irish immigrant shanty town.].    She tells the story of Terry and Lena Tierney, Irish immigrants who are struggling not only to make on Whiskey Island in the 1880s but to save money to bring their families to America.   When Terry is tragically injured, Lena needs to make more money than she does feeding the terriers at the docks.  When offered a position in one of the finest homes in Cleveland, she believes it to be an answer to her prayers.  But it seems owner James Simeon, one of the wealthiest men in the city, has more nefarious reasons for hiring the beautiful young Irish woman.<br />Richards tells both the stories in present day as well as the historical portion with the same finesse, each several chapters at a time. It seems just as I would get caught up in the historical story, Richards would take me back to present day and viceversa.  But deeply caught up in both stories I was and it didn't take more than a paragraph or two for me to get just as involved in the next story; not an easy feat for a writer to accomplish.  <br />Suspense, mystery, history, romance - this book has it all.  The historical portion of the book is interspersed with journal entries from Father Patrick McSweeney whose parish includes Whiskey Island.  How the two stories connect and how Father McSweeney becomes a truly instrumental character in the story isn't revealed until the very end (no fair peaking!)  The journal entries are told as Niccolo is asked to transcribe the entries by the current parish priest.  How the two stories meld together will have even the most discriminating reader glued to the page.  <br />Not only does the book have plenty of action to keep the reader riveted, the rich characterization that Richards is famous for keeps the reader involved in even the parts of the story without so much action; the reader feeling as if they actually know Donaghue sisters and will want to visit Whiskey Island Saloon for themselves for a taste of Rosaleen's Irish Stew followed by a pint of Guinness. Fortunately, that Irish Stew recipe along with the recipe for Megan's Soda Bread can be found on Emilie Richard's web site ....  Readers will also be happy to know that more of the Donaghue sisters' story will be told the next offering from the talented Ms. Richards, THE PARTING GLASS, available in hardcover this summer.	2003-05-25
US	53080622	RNNOEZ2ME9F1M	1551666901	460258417	Changing Habits	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great read from one of America's most beloved authors	Addressing a subject not often found in women's fiction, Debbie Macomber has written a compelling book that is absolutely unputdownable.<br />It's the late sixties - a time of turmoil for many young Americans.  But three young women decide to use their lives to serve God and become nuns.<br />Kathleen O'Shaughnessy, from a large Boston Irish family, has always known she'd become a nun.  There was never any question from the time of her first communion on.  And a more wonderful and devout nun you'd be hard pressed to find.  But when Kathleen's naiveté allows her to get into a very sticky situation, her fellow nuns have no problem sending her away... .<br />Joanna and Greg became engaged before he left for Vietnam.  They had become intimate before - conflicting with Joanna's morals.  But she knows they are meant for each other and while he is gone she spends time planning the wedding.  But Joanna is in for a shock when he returns, giving her all the impetus she needs to enter the convent.  She becomes a caring nurse and in her caring ends up devoting herself to more than just her patients when a troubled young physician forces her to take stock of her life.<br />Angelina joined the convent despite her father's vehement protest.  The young Italian girl has been primed to take over her father's restaurant business from an early age.  Sister Angelina becomes a schoolteacher, caring deeply for her students. But when she is unable to help one of her favorites, leading to tragedy, Angelina is unable to forgive herself.<br />Debbie Macomber has given readers a glimpse into a world that has many a mystery to many.  As a non-Catholic the depth of the isolation forced on the novices, especially in the late sixties, surprised me.  But Macomber has chosen to set the bulk of CHANGING HABITS in a time that saw many changes in the Catholic Church and for the nuns in particular.  <br />The poignant stories and choices made by these three women make for one of the most compelling books I've read in a very long time.  In spite of the subject matter, there is romance as well, but the story really belongs to Kathleen, Joanna, and Angie.<br />This book is very highly recommended not only for its interesting subject matter but also for the compassion with which Macomber tackles controversial issues, as well as her trademark poignancy.  It certainly proves why she is one of the most beloved authors writing today.	2003-05-04
US	53080622	R69YVY1D1SVJG	055358412X	714573301	Beach Roses	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Absolutely Unputdownable!!!	Rita Blair Rollins has no idea why Doc Hastings thinks she is qualified to lead a women's breast cancer support group.  She figures they will soon find out just how unqualified she is and find someone else.  But being the kind soul she is, she leaps to the challenge.  She knows too that this is just one more step in an anonymous benefactor donating money for a much-needed Women's Health Center on Martha's Vineyard.<br />Katie Gillette is an American pop princess who has taken the music world by storm.  Most of her material has been covers of her mothers songs, her mother being a huge star in the 70s.   Her father, who helped make her mother a star, has done the same with Katie.  After a long time trying to get Katie booked in Central Park, he succeeds in a booking for the 4th of July. Katie should be thrilled.  But she isn't.  How can she tell her father she won't be able to perform?  How can she tell him that she is not only pregnant but also has breast cancer?   To get away from it all, she leaves the Big Apple for Martha's Vineyard, eventually reconciling with her reclusive mother who lives there.<br />Hannah  has lived on Martha's Vineyard for years moving there after a shameful incident has made her give up her dream of becoming a  doctor.  She is married with three children, including one rebellious teenager.   A schoolteacher, Hannah's marriage has been troubled due to her husband's distance and she has struck up a friendship with the school principal. She has her hands full with her family and her radiation treatments, but she really hopes for more than friendship with the principal.<br />Faye is a successful business woman from Boston whose cancer has returned.  She is sure this time it will be fatal.  Before she dies she wants to find the son who she hasn't heard from in 10 years.  He fled their Martha's Vineyard beach house, blaming himself for a family tragedy.  Needing some time for herself, she leaves Boston for the beach house, and all its memories.She is shocked to find herself face to face with the woman she blames for breaking up her marriage.<br />These four very different women forge a friendship and help each other through many different battles in addition to their breast cancer.   Jean Stone has written a real pageturner.  I absolutely couldn't put it down.  This is the first book I've read by this author and it certainly won't be the last.  Reminiscent of books by authors such as Kristin Hannah, Luanne Rice, and Barbara Delinsky, this book will also appeal to romance readers who like that happily-ever-after ending.	2003-05-04
US	53080622	R111N0QQCMTE13	1575668866	131825650	Posted To Death: A Simon Kirby-Jones Mystery	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great beginning to new mystery series!	I really enjoyed this book. I've only read a few \\"cozy\\" mysteries (Dorothy Cannell's) but this book has made me want to read more. Simon Kirby Jones is a writer of historical nonfiction from Texas who moves to a small village in England as he is a true Angiophile and has always wanted to live in England.  He is also a vampire.  And he is also gay.  He also writes mysteries and romance under two different pseudonyms.  Sounds far fetched, but it was really a fun read full of quirky characters all of whom it seems had a reason to want the local postmistress dead.  Since Simon was a vampire, I would like to have seen more evidence of his vampirism (is that a word)?  But that's a very minor quibble in a very enjoyable read.   I didn't figure out who the murderer was until right at the end and thought the author wrapped everything up very nicely.  I really did like Simon and look forward to reading FAKED TO DEATH the next in the series.	2003-05-04
US	53080622	R1GJFJBENTKH1S	0696217120	419193157	Trading Spaces Behind the Scenes: Including Decorating Tips and Tricks	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A MUST READ FOR EVERY FAN OF THE SHOW	Behind the scenes at Trading Spaces is just that.   A never-before-seen glimpse into what really happens during Trading Spaces including a profile of each designer, each carpenter, and Paige Davis, the host.  What really went on in Seattle when one of the homeowners left the room in tears during the Reveal? Do Amy and Ty REALLY do all of the construction work?  How were the designers chosen?  How many ceilings fans does Laurie have in her own home?  Why does Amy Wynn go by two names?   The answers to these questions and many more are given in this fabulous book.  Complete with an episode guide for seasons I-III, it is a must for every Trading Spaces fan. I read it from cover to cover the day I bought it and although I thought for a moment about selling it on eBay, decided I really can't bear to part with it. I love the size, and have to disagree with the reviewer who described this more like a &quot;magazine.&quot;   It is definitely far from magazine quality.   The pages are all of high-quality paper and the cover is a high-gloss quality quality paperback - far thicker than a magazine or even a normal paperback book.<br />Although generally interspersed with decorating tips from the designers, this isn't at all a how-to book. For that, I anxiously await the two Trading Spaced decorating books that are coming out this summer. Suffice to say, I don't see how any fan of the show could ever be disappointed in this book!	2003-04-06
US	53080622	RTWR5GVKER5CJ	0312867530	810254815	1949: A Novel of the Irish Free State	Books	5	6	6	N	N	WOW!!!!  Morgan Llywelyn Does It Again!!!	1949, the third book in Morgan Llywelyn's series about 20th Century Ireland ( I am told there will be two more) is a compelling story of Ireland's continued struggle for complete independence from British rule, and for those who have been anxiously awaiting for this story, I can assure you, you will not be disappointed.  <br />Ursula, aka Precious, was found wandering the streets of Dublin as a toddler by Ned Halloran, who readers of 1916 and 1921 will remember.  Her parentage a question, Ned was taken in by Ned and his wife, Sile, and raised as their own.<br />1949 is Ursula's story.   It opens in the early days of the Irish Free State and ends with the forming of the Republic in 1949.  We follow Ursula as she leaves Neds family farm in County Clare at the urging of Henry and Ella Mooney (who readers will also remember from 1916 and 1921).  Henry wouldn't let Ella use any of her family's money to help support their family but does agree for her to pay for Ursula's education at an exclusive private school in Switzerland.<br />When Ursula returns to Ireland she secures a job at the new radio station, helping write copy (but never allowed to be on the air herself).  Through her eyes we see the continued political struggle in Ireland and her view of world events in the days before the second world war.  <br />Ursula has vowed never to marry, in large part due to new laws in Ireland against married women working outside the home.   Nevertheless, she is very attractive to the opposite sex and to two men in particular - Finbar Cassidy, an Irish government official whose political views frequently clash with her own, and Lewis Baines, a dashing young English pilot whose conquests of beautiful women have become legendary.  <br />Morgan Llywelyn, whose knowledge of Irish politics and history is really unequalled in historical fiction written today, liberally adds historical facts and events to add depth and interest but never detracting from the overall story.  <br />I can'tremember when I have looked forward to a book more.  Readers of 1916 and 1921 will enjoy visits with characters important in those books including Henry and Ella Mooney, Ned Halloran, and Ned's family in County Clare.  Llywelyn's stories appeal to a wide variety of readers and my husband and daughter, both of whom have read 1916 and 1921, were fighting over who was going to get to read 1949 when I finished.	2003-03-22
US	53080622	R38X6X2VO1V7CG	0505524996	273190859	Contact	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Outstanding!  Highly Recommended	I just finished CONTACT by Susan Grant last night and I have to tell you --<BR>it is spectacular. From the first page to the last, it is full of emotion.<BR>Add just the right blend of romance, mystery, and adventure and you have<BR>one of the best reads of the year. <br />Although this is definitely a science fiction romance, it isn't a futuristic<BR>instead taking place in present day. Jordan Cady is a pilot for United <BR>(like Sue herself) and widowed mother of a young daughter when the plane she<BR>is co-piloting is swallowed up by an alien aircraft. The aliens are<BR>actually part of the human race, albeit highly sophisticated. When the<BR>passengers are told that earth has been destroyed by a comet, the alien<BR>spaceship in fact rescuing them, they feel a mixture of shock, grief, and<BR>relief. <br />Chosen as a spokesperson for the &quot;rescuers&quot; is Kao, the adopted son of their<BR>leader. And, this being a romance, after all, Jordan and Kao &quot;click&quot; with<BR>several pretty steamy scenes &lt;g&gt;. <br />References to 9/11 make an impact on the reader and the story takes a lot of<BR>twists in turns, really showing Grant's talents as one of the one of<BR>romances new stars. The growth in her writing after just four books is<BR>remarkable -- given that even her first book was oustanding. <br />I am not a sci-fi reader, in fact, other than books by Grant and Catherine<BR>Asaro, have not read others in this genre. So, I have to recommend this<BR>book for not only sci-fi fans but those who just want a well-written,<BR>compelling read. This one got me out of a mini reading slump and I finished<BR>in just two days (very busy days at that).	2002-10-29
US	53080622	RXUI7DB35DMCJ	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Simply Phenomenal!	I read this book over a month ago and simply can't get it out of my mind.  This book crosses genres and my 21-year-old daughter loved it as much as as I did.  It takes something really special to make a book about the rape and murder of a teenage girl into an ultimately uplifting story. Highly recommended.	2002-08-29
US	53080622	RWW43W3G0FYIV	155853993X	307729472	The Road to Eden's Ridge	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	A book for everyone who loves romance and country music	This is a wonderful story which is actually two stories in one, about a girl from Maine,  Lindsey Briggs, who literally leaves her fiance at the church (OK, she does go to the church and explains things to him) and goes off to Nashville to seek fame and fortune as a songwriter. Meanwhile she becomes part of a small group who finds some success. They get a gig at the Blue Bird Cafe (very famous, real venue in Nashville) where they meet Ben McBride, a famous country singer now pretty much in retirement  who happened to serve in WWII alongside Lindsey's grandfather.  There are two romances here -- one between Lindsey and Ben's attorney, Michael and one from the late 1940s between Ben and Lindsey's great-aunt, Lily.  This is a wonderful story for everyone who loves a good romantic story and a doubly wonderful story for anyone who loves a good romantic story AND country music.   One of my favorite country/Americana singers, Iris Dement, is mentioned several times.  The writing is crisp and clean, the story compelling, and the setting described so that you not only want to book a flight to Nashville but also want to visit Edens Ridge in Maine.  Highly recommended!	2002-06-22
US	53080622	R10LQEKS11U71I	0066211336	18853628	Daughter of the Game	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fabulous!  Deserves More than 5 Stars!	Charles and Mélanie Fraser have life many of their friends envy --  a close, loving relationship, two beautiful children, and a large home in London's Berkeley Square full of devoted servants.  Charles, a member of Parliament, the grandson of a duke and a former intelligence officer adores his wife Mélanie who he met while in France during the Napoleonic Wars eight years earlier.  <br />Sadly their idyllic life is about to take a tumble when their six year old son Colin is kidnapped and held for ransom.   The man behind the kidnapping seems to believe Charles has the legendary Carevalo Ring in his possession.  He wishes it returned to him before he will release young Colin.   Charles and Mélanie waste no time in trying to find the ring so that their son will be returned.   Thus starts an exciting search through the streets of London  -- including the most elaborate estates, a debtors prison, and the seediest taverns, brothels, and gaming halls as well as a trip to Brighton.   As Charles and Mélanie continue their search shocking secrets are revealed which leads one to wonder if any of their lives can ever be the same.<br />Rich and multi-layered, this story is full of startling revelations that will have the reader gasping out loud.   The twists and turns nearly give the reader whiplash!!   Liberally spiced with bits of history, DAUGHTER OF THE GAME is one of the best books I've read all year.  The author is a graduate of Stanford where she studied British history and her knowledge of the history of early 19th Century Britain adds depth and texture to a fabulous read that I dare anyone to put down once they've started.   This book is one to cherish and successfully cross genres so appealing to historical readers, historical romance readers, and mystery readers as well.   DAUGHTER OF THE GAME is a keeper in every sense of the word.	2002-05-16
US	53080622	RJYGXJBUAOSPD	155166884X	973081392	Doing Good	Books	5	7	8	N	N	PAMELA MORSI'S FIRST CONTEMPORARY IS A MUST READ!!	I am a reader of both historical and contemporary romance who has found myself reading even more contemporaries than historicals as of late.  I am also a huge fan of Pamela Morsi's (her book GARTERS makes my Top 10 of all time reads).  Since I like contemporary novels and really do enjoy first-person narratives, I was happy to see Morsi give this a go.  And I wasn't disappointed.  I very  much enjoyed this foray into Jane's  mixed up world, and every much enjoyed Pamela Morsi's foray into contemporary women's fiction.   Although there is romance in the book, I would definitely call this book women's fiction as the romance isn't the main focus.  Would appeal to fans of Jennifer Crusie, Millie Criswell - both of whom use comedic relief and a great turn of phrase to entertain as well as tell a good story, but think readers who enjoy books by mainstream women's fiction authors such as Barbara Delinsky, Jane Heller, and others will also enjoy DOING GOOD.	2002-04-29
US	53080622	R345V51VYO8UR8	1551668823	117263585	Cypress Point	Books	5	37	41	N	N	Another winner from Diane Chamberlain	Diane Chamberlain has been one of my favorite authors of contemporary women's fiction/romance for quite a while and this book is typical of hers where she puts two interwoven stories into one book.  And what a book it is.  I read it in a day, something that is not at all typical for me.<br />CYPRESS POINT is set on the Monterey Peninsula and Bay Area of California including Carmel and Big Sur.  Joelle D'Angelo and Carlynn Shire's paths first cross when Carlynn saves Joelle's life on the day she is born.  Now 34 years later Joelle again needs Carlynn's help.  Her best friend Mara suffered a brain aneurysm when her first child was born 14 months previously.  Mara is now in a nursing home, attempts at physical rehabilitation being to no avail.  <br />Joelle had introduced Mara to her husband, Liam, a fellow social worker at a Monterey Hospital.  In a moment of weakness on the first anniversary of Mara's devastating illness (also the first birthday of Liam and Mara's healthy son, Sam), Liam and Joelle  are comforting each other and things go further than they should have. Using no protection due to the fact that they weren't thinking (if they *had* been thinking they wouldn't have made love in the first place) and that Joelle had suffered from infertility in her marriage (she is now divorced) -- Joelle becomes pregnant.  She has definite plans to leave the area before she is too far along in order to avoid embarrassment for not only herself but for Liam.  But first she wants to do everything she can to help Mara (who although awake, cannot communicate, recognize most people, or make many voluntary movements - it is clear she is severely brain-damaged).  A visit to her parents has her recall her miraculous revival at birth at the hands of Dr. Carlynn  Kling Shire so Joelle contacts Carlynn to see if there is anything she can do to help Mara.  Joelle is a bit hesitant to do so knowing that shortly after she was born, Carlynn was in a auto accident that killed her twin sister and doesn't want to remind of her of that tragedy.<br />Carlynn Kling  and her identical twin sister, Lisbeth  were raised on the  family estate of Cypress Point on Monterey Peninsula's famous 17-Mile Drive.  It's evident early on that Carlynn has a gift of healing and she uses that gift and becomes a physician.  Her identical twin sister doesn't appear to have the same gift and, in fact, is quite a bit different than Carlynn.  Their mother only wanted ONE child so when, on the delivery table, she's informed there are two instead of one, she begins many years of ignoring and, in fact, disclaiming her second daughter.  Lisbeth's early years weren't so bad because her father doted on her but after he died Lisbeth led an abysmal existence.  While Carlynn was sent to all the best private schools, Lisbeteh was given a substandard education.  Despite this Carlynn and Lisbeth remained close but most people don't realize they are twin because Carlynn remains slim while Lisbeth's lack of self-esteem and over-eating as a way to deal with her loneliness and insecurity causes her to balloon to 200 pounds.  When Carlynn goes to medical school in San Francisco, Lisbeth follows and works as an office manager at a medical clinic.  <br />While in San Francisco, Carlynn continues her healing ways and comes to the attention of Dr. Alan Shire who is also interested in psychic phenomena and has studied Edgar Cayce.  Their relationship eventually becomes personal as well as professional and they marry.   Meanwhile Lisbeth has a romance of her own with Gabriel Johnson, an accountant at the hospital where Carlynn and Alan practice.  There's a complication though - he's a Negro and it's the 1950s.  Through it all Carlynn and Lisbeth's mother uses one excuse after another to reject Lisbeth and to find a reason to shut her out of her will.<br />But all isn't as it  first seems.  Things get very exciting and complicated when Joelle's careful plans go awry and a closely guarded secret beingkept by Carlynn is eventually revealed.<br />Both stories are compelling and while reading Joelle's portion I was hesitatant to switch gears to go to Carlynn's story.  But I needn't have worried.  Diane Chamberlain is such a pro at telling intertwined stories in such a way that both have the reader's full attention  -- making each story as interesting and exciting as the other.  There is one caveat here for romance readers, infidelity plays a role in this story and for those of you who are against it in any way, shape, or form in the books you read, then this will not be for you.  But those who can keep an open mind, will be richly rewarded.<br />Whether it's the way she tells the story, her way with words, the way the breathes live into her characters or something less definable, Diane Chamberlain's books are definite page turners and this one, as most of her others, are very highly recommended.  In CYPRESS POINT, the setting itself becomes a character as well be it while sailing in the Pacific, the fog-shrouded coast of Big Sur, or area of Pebble Beach's 17-Mile Drive and even those who've never been to the area may be tempted to plan a trip there in the near future.  The time-period goes from the 1930s when Carlynn and Lisbeth are children, to the 1950s when they are living in San Francisco and meet the men who they eventually marry, to 1967 and the commune where Joelle is born.<br />Diane Chamberlain has again gifted readers with an outstanding read.  To simply say \\"I loved it\\" is an understatement.  It has all the qualities I have come to expect in an excellent read - and from this talented author.	2002-04-11
US	53080622	R1ZZJ4QPJYIPM3	1576738841	937171667	The Seat Beside Me	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Timely and Inspirational	Would you die for a stranger?   In light of the horrible events of September 11, 2001, this question has been asked over and over again.   Everyday people have been heroes as well as those who have occupations where saving a human being is often an everyday occurrence.  <br />IN THE SEAT BESIDE ME, Nancy Moser explores this question and much more via the survivors of a tragic airplane crash and the lessons they learn from those who died who were sitting next to them.<br />Sun Fun Airlines flight 1382 to Phoenix has been delayed because of snow.  As the airplane sits on the tarmac being de-iced, several of the passengers begin to talk to those sitting next to them.<br />Merry Cavanaugh is a young wife and mother who wants more.  She has a friend in Phoenix who is footloose and fancy-free and she is looking forward to spending some time partying with her and forgetting her real life for awhile. Imagine her shock when her husband and young daughter join her on the flight as a surprise.<br />George Davanos is going to Phoenix to kill himself.  His wife of many years died of cancer seven months previously and he is still so grief-stricken that all he wants to do is join her.   The man sitting next to him is a man who has just received a new awakening in his spiritual life.  He is on a business trip, taking the place of a co-worker who has a wedding to attend.<br />Schoolteacher Tina McKutcheon is traveling to Phoenix for some fun in the sun and a break from her boyfriend and her students.  She is so tired of surly teenagers.  When she spots a teenage girl entering the plane she looks at her decides she wants anyone BUT her to sit next to her.  Of course, she doesn't get her wish and instead teenager Mallory sits next to her and starts up a conversation.<br />Sonja Grafton is on the plane because she pulled a dirty trick on a co-worker, causing her superiors to select Sonja to go to the convention in Phoenix.  She would rather just relax on the way to Phoenix and not talkto anyone.  Her seatmate, Roscoe Moore, has different ideas.<br />Plastic surgeon Anthony Thorgood is a pompous, arrogant man who thinks he is so much better than anyone else.   When he sits next to a rather large, unkempt woman he makes several preconceived observations of her.  <br />When the plane crashes into a bridge and then into a river on take-off, there are only five survivors.  Those five survivors, Merry, George, Tina, Sonja, and Anthony, are forced to take another look at their lives.   In addition, who was the mysterious man  --  dubbed a hero by the media --  who passed a lifeline to others not once, not twice, but a total of four times before disappearing in the icy water?<br />In addition to the survivors, playing a significant role in the story is reporter Dora Roberts who had been scheduled to be on that same flight in order to be with her mother in Phoenix who was to undergo surgery.  Just before she's to leave, her mother calls with the news that her surgery has been cancelled as she apparently has been miraculously cured.  Of course Dora just figures that the doctors had been wrong initially.  But instead of being a victim of flight 1382, she writes about it.<br />One of the words one could use to describe THE SEAT BESIDE ME is intense.  It is also fast-paced and a quick read which is ultimately uplifting as lessons are learned and the characters learn what is truly important in their lives.<br />Evangelistic Christians are the targeted readers of this book.  Others may find this book more than just a little bit \\"preachy\\" and feel that with the focus of the book being as it is, that the author is mainly \\"preaching to the choir.\\"   But as a more liberal Christian myself, I still found the story compelling and worthwhile.  I only bristled one time, and that was when one of the minor characters was criticized for her Buddhist faith.  I believe it would have been more effective for the book to leave out this aspect rather than risk turning off anyone who is sympathetic to those of other faiths.   That reservation is rather small, and can be overlooked in view of the \\"bigger picture.\\"  I read the book in a day, and that is high praise indeed for someone who is normally a slow reader.  My recommendation is for readers to keep an open mind and enjoy the story itself, for the lessons the characters learn are very worthwhile and speak to everyone	2002-03-19
US	53080622	R3C59KE65B5U1S	0743407075	107696729	Grand Avenue	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A wonderful book of women's friendships	This is the second book Joy Fielding has written that diverts from her usual suspense fare.   The first, THE FIRST TIME was one of my favorite reads of 2000.  With GRAND AVENUE she proves that her foray into women's fiction wasn't just a fluke.  She joins the ranks of such authors as Barbara Delinsky, Kristin Hannah, Luanne Rice, and Patricia Gaffney as the one of the best the genre has to offer.<br />Living on Grand Avenue in Cincinnati, Barbara, Susan, Chris, and Vicki met over 20 years ago when their daughters were just toddlers.   Calling themselves \\"The Grand Dames,\\" they became fast friends over the years despite their varied personalities and occupations.  A number of social issues are addressed as housewife Chris deals with an abusive spouse, former beauty queen Barbara deals with infertility, magazine editor Susan deals with sexual harassment in the workplace, and attorney Vicki's drive for success affects her marriage and family.<br />As the years go by, their friendship goes through changes as everyday life seems to get in the way.  But when one of the four is threatened the other three are there for her.  When tragedy strikes, friendship takes on a whole new meaning.<br />I literally could not put this book down, devouring it in one sitting, and finishing at 3 AM in the morning!   I've read quite a few wonderful \\"women's friendship\\" books in the last couple years (those by Patricia Gaffney, Robyn Carr, Mary Alice Monroe to name a few) and this one is definitely in the same caliber as these other fine books.   If you like books dealing with families, women's issues, and friendship, don't miss GRAND AVENUE. I highly recommend it.	2002-02-04
US	53080622	R33QFRN1S4P8BO	0425183017	196239644	The Spiral Path	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Absolutely Brilliant!	I finally finished THE SPIRAL PATH and all I can say is WOW!This book is so richly textured and multi-layered, I hardly know here to start gushing!<br />Hollywood couple Rainey Marlow and Kenzie Scott are in the middle of a divorce.  But Rainey has adapted a novel into a screenplay and there's only one person who can play the hero - Kenzie.  Surprisingly, he agrees although he nearly backs out when, after reading the script, he finds how wounded this hero really is and he is advised that taking this role would not be good for his image.  Rainey urges him to reconsider and he eventually agrees.  Thus begins a personal journey of healing not only for Kenzie, but for Rainey as well.   It's clear to the reader that Rainey and Kenzie are absolutely made for each other, but it takes over 300 pages for Kenzie to realize this.<br />I'm ready to start a journal and go find a labyrinth to walk. Although I guessed one of the &quot;big secrets&quot; fairly early, it did nothing to diminish the over all enjoyment of this book.<br />For those of you who haven't read one or Mary Jo Putney's contemporaries, I would compare her to one of my favorite contemporary authors, Diane Chamberlain whose stories are multilayered and usually &quot;two in one.&quot; The device Mary Jo<BR>used to tell the story and to unravel Kenzie's past is nothing short of brilliant.  Much of the writing and story also reminded me of Kristin Hannah. <BR> <BR>There were a several secondary characters I particularly liked - - Sir Charles as well as Rainey's friend Val and their friend Tom, a novice monk. I think they both deserve a book of their own!<br />Suffice to say, this book is very highly recommended and sure to be on many \\"Best of 2002\\" lists.	2002-01-23
US	53080622	R2N6IZ5VM5N3JD	0312979851	394391460	True North	Books	5	3	4	N	N	OUTSTANDING!!!	Claire Brown is a workaholic.  Her idea of a getaway is to bring her cell phone and her computer along and take breaks to order room service.  But it's her fiancé s birthday and she has found a lovely lodge in Aspen which offers luxurious surroundings and adventure excursions so makes this her gift to him.   Her first clue that this wasn't going to be a good day should have been when she arrives at the airport only to discover her reservations have been cancelled and if she wants to go on this trip she will have to sit in coach between a woman who keeps trying to infringe on her space - and a young child who is, shall we say, not a good flyer.  Claire does find her fiancé in first class and tries to get an explanation out of him but air turbulence forces her back to her seat in the back of the plane.    Then her luggage doesn't arrive and when she goes outside the airport to catch the van that's to take her to Hunter's Lodge, she discovers it has left without her.  <br />To her rescue comes John McBride but neither of them is very friendly to each other.   John is actually the lodge owner, but Claire believes him to be simply the handyman and John does nothing to correct her impression.   They also infuriate each other to no end but the sexual tension is undeniable.<br />When Claire arrives at Hunter's Lodge she discovers the luxurious suite she has reserved and paid for, is inhabited by her fiancé and his new girlfriend.  Unfortunately, there are no more available rooms but Claire insists on staying and a small room above a garage - no more than a glorified closet really - is readied for her.<br />Claire is unable to set her workaholic ways behind her.  Her idea of a vacation seems to be working with her computer and cell phone with short breaks to order room service. When she discovers she has temporarily been promoted and her workload doubles, she spends much of her vacation working.  OF course this does nothing to endear her to John McBride whose mother is aCEO of a large cosmetic firm and whose ex-wife is the COO of the same company.  He's had his fill of workaholic women.<br />Claire does finally take a well-deserved break and joins the group on a river rafting excursion where her inexperience puts the entire group in danger, infuriating John even further.  However, eventually John and Claire's attraction to one another cannot be denied.  But will John come to her rescue when she discovers a discrepancy in insurance claims and her life is in mortal danger?<br />As wonderful as John and Claire are, beautifully-drawn secondary characters add even more to this wonderful story. Particularly widower George Isler who is vacationing with his two orphaned teenage granddaughters and Mary Beth McBride, John's widowed mother who eventually enter into a very friendly relationship; womanizer and cad William and his meek wife Peggy; as well as Claire's ex-fiance Bryan and his new girlfriend, Cindy.<br />Talk about a page-turner!! This book had me up into the wee hours reading it when I thought I'd just read a chapter or two.  But I was hooked from the beginning and couldn't put it down.  Although there were a few minor problems including a suspected threat to John that really goes nowhere and seems not to have a resolution, the story as a whole is one to savor.  I just love discovering new writers!  Debut author Beverly Brandt has a wonderful future ahead of her if TRUE NORTH is any indication of her talent.  I can hardly wait for her next book.	2002-01-06
US	53080622	R2GWZ5RQMKIS4G	0671017349	19324619	Irish Lady	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Stunning!  I loved this book!	To put it quite simply, after reading four of Jeanette Baker's books in the last couple years, I am hooked.   IRISH LADY was the first of several of her older books that I have read and it is as compelling, if not more so, that her current contemporaries.  IRISH LADY, with a bit of the paranormal mixed in, is two stories in one.  The first, a story set in the 20th C. amidst Northern Ireland's &quot;Troubles&quot; and the second set in 16th C.Ireland around the time of the &quot;Flight of the Earls&quot; but also dealing with the Irish political scene and the long fight with the British.  There is plenty of romance in both stories as well and although there are painful scenes, the story is ultimately one of good triumphing and of love nearly conquering all.  Those familiar with Irish History will enjoy seeing it come to life via Baker's words.  Those unfamiliar will still be taken in by Baker's marvelous storytelling abilities.  I can't recommend this book enough and know of no better proof of this than to say I am glad I already have the rest of her books and am now reading her book NELL (winner of the 2000 Rita for best paranormal romance).	2001-12-28
US	53080622	RIY3YVOH2OVVG	1569470782	816945952	Luck of the Irish: Our Life in County Clare	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not quite as enjoyable as others in this series	Over the last few weeks, I've become quite the fan of Niall and Chris.  Reading or acquiring all of their books -- fiction and nonfiction.  This book left me feeling a bit disappointed but at the same time wanting an update.  <br />I had to smile at all the visitors from abroad showing up at their doorstep --- I envisioned myself doing the same thing. Now I doubt I would show up unannounced -- but I still will make an effort to see the town of Kilmihil.<br />This book definitely should be read after reading at least the first book -- O' Come Ye Back to Ireland.  I doubt that those who haven't read the first book will be able to keep interested. And whereas the first book made settling in the west of Ireland sound romantic, Niall Williams seems to be discouraging people from doing what he and Chris.<br />That said, I am glad I read it and loved hearing about young Joseph and his sister Deirdre.	2001-12-24
US	53080622	R33WGVP5JF6XFN	0821770918	507284609	No Place For A Lady (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Judge this book by its cover!	First off, I have to say this book has one of the nicest romance novel covers I've ever seen.   The picturesque setting of a farmhouse in a tranquil valley in the shadow of the Rocky Mountains invites the prospective reader to pick up the book in order to ascertain if what's inside can possibly live up to the beautiful cover.  I'm pleased to report it does.  In spades.<br />Molly Riordan has come to America as a maid accompanying Lady Elizabeth Summersby who is with child and has been brought to America to marry the child's father, Dirk Ballinger, in Colorado.  Molly also sees this as an opportunity to find her father, Niall Riordan, who had left Ireland for America years previously.  The stage carrying Lady Elizabeth and Molly to their destination is held-up by outlaws and when it is found that Lady Elizabeth is to marry Dirk Ballinger, Lady Elizabeth is taken hostage.<br />Meanwhile Dirk Ballinger comes to the rescue just in time to hear the mortally wounded stage driver say that Molly is Lady Elizabeth.   Molly figures he must just be confused.  Dirk thinks Molly is the one is confused and believes her to be Lady Elizabeth, the woman who his half-brother, outlaw Ray Lovejoy, got in a compromising position when he was in England masquerading as Dirk.  Dirk is ready to do the right thing and marry Lady Elizabeth in Ray's stead to give the child the Ballinger name.  Dirk is also convinced that it's Lovejoy and his men who have taken Lady Elizabeth.<br />After some convincing Molly is eventually able to convince Dirk that she is not Lady Elizabeth. But in order to help him find Ray Lovejoy and his gang, he asks her not to reveal her identity to anyone for the time being and she agrees.  He embarks on a journey into the mountains to save Lady Elizabeth and Molly when she hears that he is going towards the town of Serendipity, Molly pleads with him to let her accompanying him as this was the town her father was last known to be.  On the trip into the mountains Dirk andMolly cannot deny their attraction for one another even though they know he must marry another.<br />Ray, it appears is pretty much a reluctant outlaw and readers eventually see his softer, more human side.  But no so for \\"Desperado\\" an outlaw who accompanied Dirk and his gang in the stage hold-up and who has more sinister motives.<br />Deb Stover has gifted readers with a fabulous story full of sexual tension, passion, and poignancy.  Her secondary characters are as real and fully developed as the main characters and it is wonderful to see several additional romances emerge.<br />Particularly touching is the romance between Lance, the son of Dirk's housekeeper, and Elena, the daughter of his cook.  For Lance, although a bit \\"slow\\" is a high-functioning young man afflicted with what we know today to be Down Syndrome.  Their relationship is sure to put a smile the face of readers.<br />At a time when many have heard cries that the western historical romance is dead, Deb Stover has given us a story that certainly proves this is not the case.  This is one of the best western historicals I have read in a very long time.  I enjoyed everything about this book from the setting to the characters to the love scenes.   The plot moves along in such a way revealing secrets just a bit at a time in order to keep the reader turning pages to find out what the characters' reaction is going to be to certain secrets already revealed to the reader.  <br />Put quite simply, this is an outstanding read, one that happened to get this reviewer out of her reading slump.  Brava Ms. Stover.  Long live the western historical romance!	2001-12-20
US	53080622	R30AI1BNIJEQSC	0939149222	696492745	O Come Ye Back to Ireland: Our First Year in County Clare	Books	5	20	20	N	N	It took me back to County Clare	When I traveled to Ireland two years ago and felt like I'd &quot;come home&quot;  from the beautiful scenery (I never knew there could be *that* many shades of green) to the friendly people, to the rather mystical appearance of a Dolmen-shaped cloud in the sky just after we had viewed Dolmen in north County Clare, the experience was one I will not only  never forget but hope to repeat sometime soon. During this time it was County Clare which spoke to me most of all.<br />Niall Williams, born in Dublin and Christine Breen, from New York, have left their Manhattan home to move to County Clare and into the cottage where Chris's grandfather was born.  The struggles and triumphs of their first year are engagingly told in this wonderful little book.  I was able to be transported back to the rural west of Ireland I learned to love in just a few short days.<br />In leaving their jobs and friends in Manhattan, Niall and Chris took a very big risk.  To go to a place with no central heating, a telephone out of the early 20th C., and to one of the wettest summers on record took real courage.  They quickly fit right in with their neighbors and by the time they host a New Years Eve party they are definitely one of &quot;them.&quot;<br />If you're an armchair traveler, someone who's visited the Emerald Isle, or just hope to someday, this is a story to cherish.  I have also now read their book of travel essays and am awaiting arrival of their other two books which I have recently ordered.<br />Although I am too old to do what Niall and Chris have done, it's great to live vicariously through them!  Well done!	2001-12-20
US	53080622	R2O99A3G03YSCJ	0446677892	807268016	A Rose by the Door	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A wonderful story for all ages!	Bea Bartling's faith has been sorely tested.  Her son Nathan left under mysterious circumstances five years previously for reasons known only to Bea and she's not sharing.   She has prayed fervently every day for his return.  What she doesn't count on is his return in a casket.<br />After Nathan's death any joy left in Bea's life is gone.  She is unable to even tend to her famous roses.  Roses first brought to Nebraska by travelers over the Oregon Trail.  They are so popular that the local museum even gives out pamphlets for self-guided tours.<br />When a young woman with four-year-old child arrive on her doorstep a few weeks after Nathan's death, Bea is in the throes of self-pity and doesn't want to acknowledge that the woman, Gemma is actually Nathan's widow. Even with the knowledge that Gemma and her daughter Paisley have no place to go, Bea doesn't offer them refuge.  Instead, while visiting the local museum, they are locked in overnight and the woman who finds them has Gemma arrested on suspicion of burglary.<br />Gemma's arrest is a blessing in disguise as Jay Triplett, the friendly arresting officer, calls the local minister, George Sissel and he and his family take Gemma and Paisley in.  Gemma eventually gets a job at a local restaurant and slowly Bea's defenses are taken down.  Although she eventually invites them to stay in her home, she is never able to give herself fully to Gemma although young Paisley is a little bit better at endearing herself to Bea.  When Bea finds Gemma has been in Nathan's room despite Bea asking her not to, accidentally breaking some treasured athletic trophies Nathan had won, her precarious trust of Gemma is broken and Gemma and Paisley return to the Sissel home.<br />As long-kept secrets are slowly revealed, Gemma puts the puzzle together but it takes a near tragedy for Bea to realize how much Gemma and Paisley really mean to her.  Gemma even begins to heal herself with a special friendship and perhaps budding romance.  <br />AROSE BY THE DOOR is an endearing and heartwarming story that will appeal to readers of all ages.  Little Paisley nearly steals the show with her innocence.  Both Bea and Gemma are troubled women but through their common bond they eventually help each other heal.  <br />I've long been a fan of Deborah Bedford's stories including the wonderful HARVEST DANCE and welcome her move to the inspirational romance subgenre. With well-drawn characters and a story that will keep readers turning pages, A ROSE BY THE DOOR is a clear winner.	2001-12-20
US	53080622	R21N5IGNLCF19	0515131695	835995974	Buttercup Baby (Magical Love)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Enjoy the Magic of Karen Fox!!!	Ariel of the Fae has been removed from her position as Queen of the Pillywiggins or flower faeries by Titania, Queen of the Fae, after Ariel had defended Oberon's son, Robin Goodfellow.   Now, Ariel is in the home of Robin and his mortal wife, Kate, admiring their infant son when a strange and unfamiliar feeling comes over her from a longing she doesn't completely understand - she wants a child.  A child she believe will help her loneliness fade.<br />Also admiring the infant is Rand Thayer.  Ariel sees him as the perfect candidate to father her baby but the innocent and naïve Ariel isn't well versed in the tact of mortal society and boldly asks Rand to father her baby.<br />Rand Thayer has grown up in a home of eleven women so he thinks he knows all there is to know about female behavior.  But he's never met anyone quite like Ariel who keeps showing up in the most mysterious ways.<br />This is the perfect book to read if, after recent world events you feel the fun has gone out of your reading experience.   Although BUTTERCUP BABY stands alone, readers of PRINCE OF CHARMING will enjoy re-visiting Robin Goodfellow and his Kate.<br />Karen Fox has written an utterly charming \\"faery\\" tale - a romantic fantasy sure to please readers everywhere.  I hope we will see more stories like this from this talented author.  Enjoy the magic of Karen Fox!!	2001-12-11
US	53080622	R2248DBX7KJAY2	006621341X	64637040	A Woman Betrayed	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A must-read for Barbara Delinsky Fans!	I have long believed that to bring out a book which was originally available only in mass-market paperback as a hardback was a way to rip-off consumers who think it is a new book from one of their favorite authors instead of an older one (think Sandra Brown, Linda Howard).  Usually these books are not up to snuff, the author having grown as a writer in the intervening years.   A WOMAN BETRAYED is an exception to this.  Written in 1991, it is a bit dated as it mentions nothing of the technological gains of the following ten years we have come to take for granted such as the internet, caller ID, and cell phones.   But the story itself is compelling and just as good as anything Delinsky has written in recent years. <br />As a wife, mother of two, and business owner, Laura Frye seems to have it all but finds her life crumbling down around her when her CPA husband of 20 years fails to come home from work one evening.  At first Laura believes it has to be either foul play or that Jeffrey has had an accident of some sort, but when she discovers the IRS has been investigating Jeff for tax fraud, it becomes all to clear that he left on his own accord.  As a part of the investigation, Laura's assets are frozen.  How is she going to make mortgage payments or college tuition payments for her son let alone pay her employees at the restaurant she owns?<br />Things get worse before they get better with a new revelation that Jeff was having an affair, her son being arrested, and  Jeff's brother Christian, Laura's early love, returning. There's also Laura's interfering mother who doesn't think Laura can do anything right, and the local newspaper who continues to try Jeff's case via editorials and front page headlines.<br />If you have enjoyed Barbara Delinsky's later novels such as A WOMAN'S PLACE, COAST ROAD, LAKE NEWS, and THE VINEYARD, you are sure to also enjoy A WOMAN BETRAYED. This is highly recommended as a book difficult to put down once started.  The devastating effects Jeff's actions have on his wife, children, mother, brother, business partner, and friend are well-documented.   Surprises revealing motivation for not only Jeff but other minor characters keep the reader turning pages.   In addition, the reader is treated to the budding romance between Tack Jones, the IRS agent investigating the case and Laura's best friend and attorney, Daphne.   Delinsky  has done a wonderful job of  bringing this vast array of characters to life via the pages of  this book.  Being a fan of  Barbara Delinsky since 1992, I wonder how I missed this book the first time around but am glad  I finally found it.  This is a must-read for fans of Barbara Delinsky.	2001-11-24
US	53080622	R30IHAXAYRGOUY	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Like A Visit with Old, Dear Friends	To say I looked forward to this book more than any other in recent memory is an understatement.   I was on a strict budget and books were not in it.  Especially not hardbacks.  But I could not NOT get this book.   I started it as soon as I received it and managed to make it last two weeks, savoring every word.<br />Although more snippets of life in the 1770s linked together than a book with a real plot, it was like reading letters from that era instead of a conventional book.  Those looking for a book with a real beginning, middle, and end will be disappointed.  This simply isn't that kind of a book.  Also, those new to the series should not begin with this book -- you will find yourself feeling like a newcomer to a family reunion.<br />While the other four books were all about Jamie and Claire, THE FIERY CROSS is as much about their daughter Brianna and her husband Roger.  We visit with characters from other books and meet a few new ones as well.  Some of the scenes are nail-bitingly-exciting and I found myself staying up into the wee hours on several occasions to finish a section.<br />And not all threads are neatly tied up at the end -- making readers hope that it won't be nearly FIVE years before we see the next installment.  Highly recommended for those familiar with the series. Others will need to read the books in order.	2001-11-20
US	53080622	R11EGHMLXNYCL3	0380817853	751806563	Secret Vows	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A Stunning Debut!!!!!!!!!	It is absolutely unbelievable Mary Reed McCall is a first time author.  Set in medieval England, its the story of Catherine of Somerset who has recently become a widow.  Her brother-in-law, Eduard Montford, after his first choice, his sister dies, blackmails Catherine into marrying Grayson de Camville, a much-esteemed knight with great holdings.  Eduard is as cruel as<BR>her husband had been and Catherine is subject to beatings and blackmail -- he tells her he will have her twin son and daughter killed if she does not do as he has told her -- which is to gain her new husband's trust and set him up to be killed.<br />Gray is fighting demons of his own. Neither Catherine nor Gray  plan on falling in love, just doing as they feel they must.  Catherine, masquerading as her deceased sister-in-law, has to pretend to Gray that she's a virgin. There's a great jousting scene and the author gives a wonderful sense of time and place.  Catherine and Gray are both wonderful characters (Gray is a beta male -- or maybe gamma - but I love 'em) and Eduard is a villain to top all villains - you know, one of those whose very presence on the page is an indicator of a riveting scene to come.<br />The prologue (and the epilogue) of SECRET VOWS is written in first person and this is very effective tool in garnering reader sympathy for the heroine.   SECRET VOWS is not only of the best first books I've read in a very long time, but one of the best medieval romances I've ever read.  The book is historically accurate and the history acts as more than just wallpaper, but NEVER overtakes the story.  Mary Reed McCall has a great future ahead of her if SECRET VOWS is any indication of her talent.   This book is highly recommended and definitely makes my list for top 10 books read in 2001.	2001-10-22
US	53080622	RBC54VE503YO1	1551668416	731801765	Buffalo Valley (Dakota Series #4)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	A pleasant return to Buffalo Valley!!!	I just love the Debbie Macomber's books.  Her Christmas books are particularly welcome and BUFFALO VALLEY is no exception.<br />Vaughn Kyle is visiting Buffalo Valley at the request of his girlfriend, an executive with a large discount superstore which has plans to open a store in the little town.  It's been many years since Vaughn had visited the town his mother grew up in, but he's happy to check out the town as it is near his parents' home in Grand Forks.   He also wants to take the opportunity to meet Hassie Knight, Buffalo Valley's pharmacist.  Vaughn's mother had been engaged to marry Hassie's son, Vaughn, but he was killed in Vietnam. Although Hassie always remembered her son's namesake with cards on his birthday, the two have never met.  But when Hassie stops at the pharmacy, instead of Hassie he finds young divorcee Carrie Hendrickson instead.  When Carrie finds out who the handsome stranger is, she offers to take him on a tour of the charming little town.  It isn't long before Vaughn meets many of the town's citizens and they are all taken with him - Carrie even more so.  Carrie has closed her heart since her divorce and Vaughn is awakening feelings in her which have been long dormant.<br />Vaughn has told no one, not even his parents, that he is checking the town out.  But the town soon gets wind that the superstore plans on moving in and they are none too happy about it.  How will they feel when they find out Vaughn has ties to this company?  <br />BUFFALO VALLEY is a fitting follow-up to Debbie Macomber's Dakota Trilogy and is sure to please her legions of fans, particularly those who have enjoyed prior visits to this fictional North Dakota town.  Readers will also enjoy appearances by characters from the previous books.  This book is a very pleasant respite from current world events.  I got completely lost in Buffalo Valley this afternoon and felt the tension leave my body as I entered another world.  Another great read from a master storyteller!	2001-10-16
US	53080622	R1LXDZNZKZ2TC7	0425180980	29643847	A Prince of a Guy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fabulous!	Doctor Kate is a radio talk show host who has avoided jocks and sports like the plague after the death of her husband - a certified sports nut. So she is none-too-happy when a fellow talk-show host moves in next door. She is even more unhappy when he makes friends with her young son and encourages his love of baseball. Jeff is handsome, funny, intelligent, and good to her child - what more could Kate want? Unfortunately, she doesn't see these things and instead keeps looking for Mr. Perfect.<br />Meanwhile, Kate thinks she has found the man of her dreams. Grayson White is handsome, successful, classy - and interested in things other than sports. He takes her to the opera and to expensive restaurants - literally sweeping her off her feet. She's immediately smitten.<BR>I have known women like Kate - heck, she could be me! More than once in my single days what I thought I was looking for wasn't what I really needed. . . And so it is with Kate. She thinks Grayson is the man of her dreams when her real prince is sitting right next door - literally. Unfortunately, Kate very nearly gets herself in over her head with Grayson before the shocking truth about him is revealed. I applaud Sheila Rabe for not sticking with the \\"rules\\" of romance and, instead, making this book into something that is REAL. And she does this with her trademark wit and humor. Those who continually find fault with the romance genre should certainly take a look at this book. These things can happen in real life - and do. Thank you Sheila for another wonderful read.	2001-09-09
US	53080622	RVDWZZV32UYBU	0385319959	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Books to be read again and again	What more can I say about a book where there are already over 600 reviews posted?  I guess I could tell how the books have an almost cult-like following.  They have spawned numerous websites and e-mail lists, and even a companion volume (which I also  highly recommend).  They have inspired more than one person to visit Scotland to see the historical sites first-hand.  It's impossible to make comparisons of this book to others pretty much impossible to categorize.  It crosses genres and crosses genders.  Jamie and Claire have become so \\"real\\" for so many people; and for good reason.  The way Gabaldon writes it makes the reader feel part of a \\"real\\" experience.  I know that sounds corny, but when you read the books you'll know what I mean.  To paraphrase an old TV commercial, \\"I bet you can't read just one.\\"  These books are nearly impossible to find in used bookstores because people  hang on to them to read again and again.  I not only own all four books and the companion in first edition (all autographed now, I might add), but I also own extra copies to loan to friends.  And I have made more than one Gabaldon convert.  As romantic as the story is, there is graphic violence as well; these books are not for the faint of heart. I truly believe anyone who reads OUTLANDER and the subsequent books, will be very glad they did and will find their life richer because of them.	2001-08-21
US	53080622	R1Q6S5QVWDK98H	0380817683	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding!	I can count on the fingers of one hand the authors I can trust to consistently deliver a quality read.   Marian Keyes is one of them.   I like Marian Keyes so much that I buy her books in hardcover from the UK --- usually at least two years before they come out in the states.  For RACHEL&#8217;S HOLIDAY I actually read a copy from Ireland which is complete with all the Irish slang, I feel is likely missing from the US version.   That said, if you are unfamiliar with Irish slang, the US version will probably be more to your liking.   Marian Keyes books take me &#8220;away&#8221; like few others can.   From a boring transatlantic plane flight to a stressful wait in a hospital waiting room, you can trust Marian Keyes to help you forget your worries.  And be thoroughly entertained.<br />Marian Keyes consistently tackles controversial or serious subjects with wit and humor (in WATERMELON Claire&#8217;s husband announces that he&#8217;s leaving her for another woman &#8211; the day their baby is born; in THE LAST CHANCE SALOON a group of singles from Ireland living in London tackle issues such as obesity and homosexuality).  In RACHEL&#8217;S HOLIDAY, Keyes again gives us a serious subject, substance abuse, but presents it in such a way that has readers will be laughing out loud.   That&#8217;s not to say she glorifies it, but with Rachel&#8217;s narration, readers feel the sadness at her situation, and is also caught smiling at the circumstances Rachel finds herself in.  Particularly funny was one of the flashbacks where she and her friend Brigit are in a pub in Manhattan and finally figure out instead of the group of men friends who also frequent the place each having a pair of leather pants, they apparently each wear the same pair on a different night.<br />Rachel Walsh (who readers may remember as the sister of Claire of WATERMELON fame), at her family&#8217;s insistence after an accidental drug overdose, has returned home to Ireland from New York City where she&#8217;s lived for the past few years.  Her father has secured her admission to The Cloisters, a substance abuse treatment facility south of Dublin in the Wicklow Hills.  Rachel denies she has a problem but figures she could use a vacation. Known as the place where celebrities go to &#8220;dry out&#8221; Rachel expects to find herself in a luxury spa-like facility, not the stark reality she discovers The Cloisters to be.   <br />But the subject matter isn&#8217;t the only thing that propels RACHEL&#8217;S HOLIDAY from &#8220;just another chick lit&#8221; novel to an extraordinary read for any woman of any age.  It&#8217;s the perfectly timed turn of phrase from Keyes via Rachel&#8217;s voice.  It&#8217;s the extraordinary cast of secondary characters.  It&#8217;s the sense of place.  To put it quite simply, this is another outstanding offering from Marian Keyes.	2001-08-15
US	53080622	R3LCCRMYSZ2P9F	0312867549	296519151	1921 (Irish Century)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	HISTORY TELLS WHAT HAPPENED, FICTION TELLS HOW IT FELT	In this sequel to her powerful novel, 1916, Morgan Llywelyn revisits the Irish struggle for independence.  Although Ned Halloran, the main character in 1916, continues to be an important character in this book, this is the story of the events of 1916-1922 as seen through the eyes of Ned's friend, journalist Henry Mooney.  Via a journalist's eyes the reader is treated to a very personal view of the events in the aftermath of the 1916 Easter Rising and Ireland's struggle for independence.<br />As a journalist, Henry is privy to a lot of private information - some he isn't even able to print.  In 1921 the events become more than just dates and places and the people involved more than just names.  They become very real to the reader as Henry finds himself smack dab in the middle of much of the action.   His friendship with Michael Collins is at the forefront of the story, but as Henry tries his best to remain neutral after the treaty is signed, it is clear it is going to be very difficult for him to do so.<br />There's romance for Henry as well.  He falls for widow Ella Rutledge, an Irish native of English ancestry, a protestant whose family allegiance lies with the British.  Will he ever find true happiness with the beautiful, intelligent young woman when her family feels like they do?<br />I was surprised to see that Llywelyn used Henry as the protagonist instead of Ned, but I applaud her for doing this as in so doing she was able to give a more objective point of view - something that might appear very difficult to do.<br />Even though the reader may be aware of many of the historical events, he/she is still stunned at the brutality and the atrocities of war in a story which it is difficult to know which side to sympathize with as horrible, unspeakable acts of brutality were carried out by both sides.  It becomes clear it isn't as simple as Catholics vs. Protestants. <br />By the time the reader finishes these two novels (1916 and 1921) they are certain to have a better understanding of today's Irish &quot;Troubles&quot;  -- although understanding doesn't mean condoning the violence.  <br />One can only hope that Llywelyn is planning to continue this series as  has done such a spectacular job and as Henry tells Ned, &quot;History tells what happened; literature tells what it felt like.&quot;	2001-08-12
US	53080622	R39NZ8OV79MVSG	0812574923	767718582	1916: A Novel of the Irish Rebellion (Irish Century)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Read this Book --FEEL history - worth more than 5 stars!!!!	This is a powerful novel of the events surrounding the 1916 Easter Rising in Dublin Ireland.  The book opens in 1912 as Ned Halloran and his parents are on a journey from Ireland to America to visit Ned's sister Kathleen.  Fate has intervened and they make their voyage on the Titanic.   Ned survives the sinking, however his parents as well as new friend Dan Breen, are all lost to the sea.  <br />Kathleen and her fiancé, Alexander Campbell, urge Ned to stay in New York but his heart is in Ireland and he returns to County Clare and his family farm where his older brother and two younger sisters are left to mourn the loss of their parents.  <br />Meanwhile, Lord Inchpin of nearby Dromoland Castle, to make up for what young Ned has been through, has offered him a rare opportunity for a farm lad from County Clare - further education at a private school in Dublin.   The school chosen turns out to be St. Enda's, the school run by Padraig (Patrick) Pearse, south of downtown.  Pearse, as those familiar with early 20th C. Irish history know, is one of the heroes of the 1916 Easter Rising.   This is a fictionalized account of events leading up to that fateful week.   <br />Ned interacts with many historical figures during this time including all the principals of the Irish Rebellion in which he becomes a courier for the eventual heroes.  During this time, too, he runs into Sile (prounced &quot;Sheila&quot;) Breen, Dan's sister, who has run off to Dublin and is how working in the world's oldest profession.  The naïve Ned isn't aware of this at first and is, instead, stunned by her beauty although he is side-tracked by another woman he clearly has a crush on.   Important too, is secondary character Henry Mooney, the young journalist from county Limerick Ned meets on the train on his way to Dublin.<br />Even though the reader may already be aware of the events of April and May 1916 in Ireland, the emotions evoked by this novel, become very real - as if they happened yesterday instead of 85 years ago.  Llywelyn portrays the Pearse brothers, Joseph Mary Plunkett, Thomas Clark, James Connolly, Sean MacDermott, Thomas MacDonagh, and others in such away as the reader feels the same love for Ireland and has the same desires as they do.<br />In the sequel to this book, 1921, Morgan Llywelyn has one character say to another &quot;History tells what happened; literature tells what it felt like.&quot;  This is exactly how I feel about 1916.  Despite reading history books relating the events, reading this novel has made this very personal.  I could feel the pain of these characters, I could feel their fervor and enthusiasm for the cause they believed in, and in the end I could feel the need to keep the memory of these brave people alive as the country fights for home rule and freedom from British oppression.<br />When you are finished reading this book, and I highly recommend that you do, pick up the sequel 1921, which relates the events of the next six years in Ireland's struggle for independence and although it is Henry Mooney's story, it does feature Ned in a very big way.<br />There's no better compliment I can give a novel than to say it not only made me think, made me want to read everything I can get my hands on, and wish to visit the historical sites in Ireland including the GPO, Kilmainham Gaol, and other locales mentioned in the book.   Llywelyn has made this very easy with the maps in front of the book showing the locations of these places.   Also helpful is the list of characters, both fictional and historical, in the front of the book.  She adds several pages of notes and a selected bibliography at the end.    Read this book - FEEL history.	2001-08-12
US	53080622	R1F7XPABL504QA	0716526662	847304083	Grace Gifford Plunkett and Irish Freedom: Tragic Bride of 1916 (Women in Irish History Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Haunting story of a brave woman	It is fitting that I first became aware of the tragic story of Grace Gifford Plunkett (1888-1955) when hearing the song \\"Grace\\" sung at an Irish pub in Savannah, GA called \\"Kevin Barry's.\\"  The pub was named for the Irish teenager and medical student who was executed by the British in 1920 and became a national hero.  In fact, On the day of his execution, scores of his fellow students at all the Irish Universities joined the Irish Republican Army (IRA).<br />I listened to the song \\"Grace\\" with tears in my eyes as her tragic story was revealed.  As the fiancée of Joseph Mary Plunkett, a member of the IRA and one of the heroes of the 1916 Irish Rising, she married him just hours before he was executed. I couldn't get the haunting melody and lyrics out of my mind.  The chorus goes,  \\"Grace, just hold me in your arms and let this moment linger, For they take me out at dawn and I will die.  With all my love, I place this wedding ring upon your finger, we won't have time to share our love for we must say goodbye.\\"  I had tears streaming down my face by the time the song was over. <br />When I returned to Washington state, I couldn't wait to find out more about Grace. I was so glad to find this book of Marie O'Neill's which tells Grace's story.  It's a short book, but packed full of details of Grace's life.  It's illustrated with Grace's own cartoons.  O'Neill interviewed people who had known Grace including nieces who shared many personal stories of their aunt.  <br />This book is recommended for anyone who would like more details of the 1916 Rising, told in a very personal way.	2001-08-10
US	53080622	R5I61C7OT7BOM	0743412761	549415268	Cameo Lake	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great family drama	Novelist Cleo Grayson McCarthy has come to her friend Grace's Cameo Lake cabin in the mountains of New Hampshire for the summer in order to finish her current manuscript without the stresses of everyday life interfering. The serenity and solitude is just what she believes she needs to concentrate.  While at the lake, she becomes curious about the neighbor who lives on the small island opposite her place, playing haunting melodies during the day and night. <br />Benson \\"Ben\\" Turner was a famous rock star in the 70s.  Now he lives a hermit-like existence on Cameo Lake.  He has recently been the subject of much gossip as many of the summer residents believe he is responsible for the death of his wife the year previously.  He spends much of his time composing music in her memory.<br />Living in close proximity and sharing a raft on the lake, Ben and Cleo become friends.  When circumstances at home dictate Cleo's husband Sean leaving the children at the lake after their scheduled two-week visit is over, the children, Tim and Lily, become friendly with Ben as well.  They keep wanting their mother to invite Ben over for meals and soon they have occasional meals together and Ben becomes a great help to Cleo in keeping the children occupied so she can write.<br />Cleo's husband Sean had had an affair early on in their marriage.  And although she has forgiven him, she certainly hasn't forgotten it.  When Sean seems to be spending more and more time at the office and is unavailable to take her phone calls, she becomes more and more suspicious of his actions.  Still she doesn't go any further in her relationship with Ben than friendship.  But as her suspicions are confirmed, Ben is a source of support to Cleo and she begins to question her real feelings for Sean.  <br />Although the conflict in the story resolves itself a little too easily, some very real issues are addressed which bring this story out of the depths of simple melodrama.  The issues Cleo has with her mother-in-law, Alice, a woman of an early generation who had chosen to stay with her own husband (Sean's father) after his marital indiscretions and the very real sense of loss Cleo feels as she not only loses her husband but the closeness to his family which she cares very much for, is very real and poignant.  Cleo's parents had divorced when she was young and she never felt really  loved.  Sean's mother and sisters have become her family and she is hurt by some of their actions and rightfully so.<br />Ben's reasons for continually being obsessed with his wife's memory, seems a little misguided given later revelations (which could be seen as a spoiler so won't be detailed here) and I questioned whether, given his feelings toward her, he would have treated her memory in the way he did.  But I am willing to overlook that to enjoy this story in which both Ben and Cleo treat their situations with maturity when they certainly could have had their emotions over take their common sense.<br />While CAMEO LAKE doesn't have the emotional intensity of her earlier book, HAWKE'S COVE, it's nevertheless a pleasant read which many readers will enjoy.  CAMEO LAKE should particularly appeal to readers who enjoy books by such authors as Barbara Delinsky, Luanne Rice, and Kristin Hannah, but the first-person POV she uses keeps the reader at arms length with Ben, someone I would love to have had more of an emotional connection to as a reader.	2001-07-19
US	53080622	R9VY6JN8KGTM9	0451409892	947961599	Phantom Waltz	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Catherine Anderson's Best Book Yet!	Catherine Anderson, well-known for her unconventional heroines, has created her most unusual yet with Bethany Coulter&#8212;a paraplegic and the love interest of Ryan Kendrick, brother of Rafe Kendrick from BABY LOVE.<br />This book is totally character driven, is much spicier sexually than books I usually read, has virtually no plot other than the relationship between the hero and heroine--- and yet, I couldn&#8217;t put the book down once I started.<br />Ryan, who had had his share of love interests throughout the years is in his early 30s and ready to settle down.  Seeing his brother&#8217;s happiness after marrying Maggie, Ryan would like some of that same  happiness for himself.  When he sees lovely Bethany Coulter sitting at a computer at the farm parts store owned by her father, he is immediately lovestruck.  He already decides he wants to ask her out &#8211; when she notices that the chair she is sitting in is a wheelchair. Bethany had been paralyzed from the waist down in a barrel racing accident eight years previously.<br />Bethany at first tells Ryan a gentle no, but Ryan refuses to take this no for an answer and finally wears down her resolve.   They go on a first date to a tractor pull but first, finding out her interest in horses, takes her out to his ranch to see his newborn colt.  ...  <br />One of the most unusual secondary characters in the story is a friendly bull named T-bone, who had been sickly as a young calf, and Ryan had taken such a liking to him that he refused to have him castrated.   When he makes friends with Cleo, Bethany&#8217;s cat, the picture of this cat, sleeping on the back of this enormous bull, makes for an unusual scene to say the least. <br />Readers of BABY LOVE will enjoy being re-acquainted with the main characters from that book including Rafe, Maggie, her sister Heidi, her mother Helen, their son Jaime, and new baby daughter Amelia.  <br />Anderson has written yet another page turner.  Her unusual heroines (a deaf heroine, abused heroine, a heroine accused of murder) and storylines have become her hallmark &#8211; she risks a lot here in creating such an usual heroine.  But she does it with finesse and style, never making Bethany a character to be pitied but instead a strong woman with a life of her own, becoming more than she ever dreamt she could be.   All combine for a book readers should be putting at the top of their reading list for the summer of 2001.	2001-07-15
US	53080622	R2HJX183RTW5JV	0553801228	774262906	Summer Light	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This one puts Luanne Rice on Auto-Buy List!	As a wedding planner May Taylor sees happy betrothed couples daily.  However, that kind of happiness has evaded her.  She once thought she had that kind of lasting love only to find, after telling her boyfriend she was pregnant with their child, that he was already married.   May has spent the ensuing six years dealing with her business and caring for her daughter, Kylie.<br />Kylie is being studied by psychologists after she has experienced strange visions, one of which occurs while she and her mother are flying home from one of her psychologist visits.  She tells Boston Bruins hockey star Martin Cartier, sitting ahead of them in first class,  to help her and her mom.  Martin has no idea what Kylie means but when the airplane crash lands, he rushes to assist Kylie and May.   <br />Martin Cartier is the star right wing for the Boston Bruins.   Known as the Gold Sledgehammer, he has his share of female admirers and has even dated a few.  But they were nothing more than a classy accessory to him.   When he meets May it's different.  Somehow he knows they were meant to be together.<br />As Martin begins to court May, it isn't long before she begins the feel the same way and soon the wedding planner is planning her own wedding.<br />But Martin has some secrets in his past.  Secrets he has told no one.  He also has some well-known family tragedies he is reluctant to talk about including the death of his young daughter, Natalie, and his estrangement from his father, a hockey hall of famer, now serving time in prison for racketeering.<br />Martin is a huge star. One who has led his team to the Stanley Cup finals several years in a row.  He wants nothing more than to win the championship - something that has evaded him.  During hockey season he is driven - he has only one thing on his mind - win the championship and take the Stanley Cup away from his arch rival Nils Jorgenson.<br />Kylie's visions have seemed to increase since Martin has come into her life.  In fact, she isnow seeing visions and communicating with Martin's deceased daughter, Natalie.  Of course, no one believes her even when she tells them she is meant to \\"bring them together\\"  - but bring who together?  And how?<br />Despite some uncertainties, May, Martin, and Kylie are forging a happy life together.  Summers spent at Lac Vert in Canada, Martin's childhood home, are nearly idyllic.  However hockey injuries Martin has suffered all of his life come back to haunt him threatening everything he has learned to care about.   As the old Bible verse Martin's mother cross-stitched years ago \\"And a child shall lead them\\" comes into play, will Martin and his family get the miracle they need?<br />This was an enjoyable story for those who like a little of the supernatural in their stories (angels - and who's to say things like this can't happen?).   Kylie is really the star of this book, sort of a younger version of the character Haley Joel Osment played in \\"The Sixth Sense.\\"  <br />Rice has detailed the hockey world superbly, making even this non-hockey fan wanting to watch a game, so this shouldn't be a turn-off for those who don't like stories about sports heroes.  Those scenes are really a fairly small part of the book.  The story is more of the relationships between husband and wife, husband and daughter, husband and stepdaughter, father and son, and even between friends.  <br />Luanne Rice is a wonderful storyteller and her books are now on my auto-buy list.  I would compare her with such wonderful authors as Kristin Hannah or Barbara Delinsky.    I even spent 4th of July reading it as others around me were celebrating the holiday.  SUMMER LIGHT is truly a special read and it's highly recommended.	2001-07-06
US	53080622	R1Y4B96Y8NVM77	0312975805	764011768	Fatal Romance:  A True Story of Obsession and Murder (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Disturbing and Sad	Many romance readers and writers awoke to shocking news June 6, 1999 headlined in papers from coast to coast: \\"Romance Novelist Slain.  Police Say Husband Killed Writer, Self.\\" (Washington Post headline 6/7/99).  As we mourned the loss of Nancy Richards-Akers, a popular author and friend, we were left with the big question, \\"How could such an intelligent person have allowed this to happen?\\"  As more details emerged including Nancy having apparently taken a lover over 20 years her junior and leaving her home and two young children, there were more questions than answers.<br />Author Lisa Pulitzer attempts to answer these questions by relating the story of Nancy and her estranged husband, Jeremy Akers, showing how the Scarsdale, NY debutante fell under the spell of the handsome but volatile, Vietnam vet from a small town in Alabama, now a successful DC attorney.<br />There are no easy answers here as stories of Nancy's abuse differ. But one thing appears clear.  Jeremy Akers couldn't live with the shame and embarrassment of his wife's abandonment.  <br />Pulitzer relates the story of Nancy's involvement with the Washington Romance Writers including starting the now yearly Harpers Ferry Writers' Retreat and her struggle to become published.  Several romance writer friends are mentioned in the book as well.<br />But don't go thinking the entire book is complimentary towards Nancy and negative toward Jeremy.  Nancy is portrayed as a sloppy housekeeper who irritated some with her snobbery and name-dropping.  Pulitzer describes Jeremy as a loving (although strict) father who surprised friends by being so gentle with his children. There is no question though as to how much they loved their three children who remain the very real and living victims of this horrific crime<br />Even those who don't usually read true crime will be interested in reading FATAL ROMANCE although it is sometimes difficult to read.  Those acquainted with Nancy may even wish to skip chapter 2 that includes details not for the faint of heart.  The two biggest complaints I have with this book is in their choice of pictures.   First of all, the photo on the cover depicts a woman that seems rather brash, not the lovely lady I remember meeting; and secondly, the back cover advertises \\"8 pages of powerful photos!\\"  when there are pretty blah photos of Nancy and her husband, and of their homes.  Thankfully though, the publisher and/or author chose not to use photos of the children and, at all times, appeared to have portrayed them in the best interests of the children.<br />Pulitzer has researched her subject well as she tells this disturbing and sad story of obsession and murder in an objective manner.  The book, it has to be reiterated, is not for everyone, but those who do try it will find it impossible to put down..	2001-07-04
US	53080622	R262CQFTLC4SQS	0743411323	184600193	Never Change	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Moving and Memorable	Myra Lipinski is 51 years-old and life is pretty much passing her by - or she views it as if it is.  Never-married, she has left her job as an ICU nurse to become a visiting nurse - something she finds pretty rewarding even though she does get a little annoyed by some of her patients.   We all knew someone like Myra in school.   The girl who, instead of going to the prom, took tickets at the door.  The girl who while she never had many dates, was the one who a lot of the girls came to for advise.  She even had one guy come for her advice -- Chip Reardon, the school jock, the golden boy.    Myra is stunned when she gets a referral to care for a man who has an incurable brain tumor and has returned to his hometown and the home of his parents to die -- the referral is for Chip Reardon, the golden boy.  The boy she always saw in her dreams.     Chip, who has also never married, is very glad to see Myra and though he has had surgery, he has decided against chemotherapy or radiation, and just wishes to die with dignity.  He is doing pretty well when the first meet, but it isn't too long before little things happen -- a shuffled gait, tiring easily, word finding problems, that tells Myra he doesn't have much time left.   Chip and Myra become very good friends but soon a woman from his past (the girl he had gone steady with in high school -- the beauty queen -- now a successful attorney)soon arrives, rocking Myra's world -- or the world she had dreamed of with Chip.      The book is liberally seasoned with many wonderful secondary characters -- patients of Myra's who eventually show Myra how much she is loved -- with some help from Chip. Berg is a true artist with her words and the emotions she's able to evoke from the reader.   I felt it was nothing short of brilliant.<br />I'd been burned by Berg's last two, one because I thought the heroine was TSTL (too stupid to live &#8211; UNTIL THE REAL THING COMES ALONG), and the next because it was written in present tense - something I've never been able to read.   I had read some wonderful reviews of NEVER CHANGE but since I'd had some bad experiences with her (after loving TALK BEFORE SLEEP and RANGE OF MOTION) I decided that I'd wait for the paperback (it was [price] for a 214 page book!) -- well, then Pocket sent me an ARC.  I started reading it and she just completely sucked me into the story -- and then I find most of it's in present tense! But you know, after awhile I didn't even notice! <br />This isn't an easy book to read.  Myra and Chip become so real that you feel so deeply for both of them.  And, the reader even grows to like Diann, the woman from Chip's past (as does Myra much to  her chagrin).  This story is very moving, but not for the faint of heart, as readers will need many tissues to get through it.   Those who stick with it, will be richly rewarded as, in a way, there is a happy ending for both Myra and Chip -- not that there are any miracles here. Or, perhaps, in a way, there are.<br />Buy this one in hardback &#8211; you&#8217;ll be glad you did.	2001-06-27
US	53080622	R3OZXO939OSVU7	0671035339	783615143	Sentimental Journey	Books	5	27	27	N	N	BEST OF THE BEST --- AN INCREDIBLE STORY!!!!	Once in a very great while there comes along a book so magnificent every word of praise seems trite - no word can give it justice.  SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY is one such book. Jill Barnett, well known for her humorous, yet poignant, historical romances, completely redefines herself in this spectacular story of love and loss set during the early days of World War II.<br />Opening with an action scene, SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY is reminiscent of Robert Ludlum, one of fiction's all-time masters.  It also brings to mind such classic books as BATTLE CRY by Leon Uris and even FOR  WHOM THE BELL TOLLS by Hemingway.   After the opening scene, Barnett takes readers back in time introducing of the main characters including:<br />Kitty Kincaid as she tries to outrun the Gestapo; JR Cassidy the gutsy young American Army Captain sent on an unusual mission; Charlotte (Charley) Morrison, daughter of a barnstormer and famous aircraft designer whose flying prowess eventually enables her to join an elite group of women; William \\"Red\\" Morrison, the young Texan who always wanted more adventure than he'd find running a gas station in west Texas; and George \\"Skip\\" Inskip, the RAF flying ace whose becomes a reluctant national hero following a personal tragedy.<br />In chapters following, readers get a glimpse of the lives of these brave young men and women until their stories eventually intertwine and fate brings them together.<br />Barnett has chosen to tell her story in short chapters, each of which bear the title of a popular song from the era - a very effective method which not only describes what is happening in that particular chapter but will have the reader humming many of the old standards.<br />This is an emotional story skillfully told and is sure to make Barnett into a major star in the world of fiction.  Her three-dimensional characters and exciting action  place the reader firmly in the scenes.  This is a story which will be enjoyed equally by men and women as evidenced in this reviewer's own household. <br />Barnett has done what would seem impossible - effectively melding the best of women's fiction and men's action adventure together.   This book was at once nearly impossible to put down and one this reviewer wanted to savor forever.  <br />And even though words to describe this may be difficult - I'll try a few:  Magnificent! Outstanding!   This is a wonderful reading experience.	2001-06-26
US	53080622	R3PI41FNNRVZMR	1551668114	761264374	Thursdays At Eight	Books	5	100	103	N	N	HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!!!! WOMEN'S FICTION AT ITS BEST	It has long been my belief that when an author moves from mass market paperback originals to hardcover, the book needs to be something special - partly to justify the increased price and partly to attract a larger audience.  THURSDAYS AT EIGHT is Debbie Macomber's hardcover release and there's no doubt about it being justified.<br />The very method she uses to tell the story is unique.  Each chapter begins with a journal entry by each of the four main characters who have met in a journal-writing class but after the class is completed, they find they wish to continue meeting and their breakfast club, Thursday morning at 8 AM at Mocha Moments Café is born.  In the first four chapters we meet each of the women: Clare Craig, Liz Kenyon, Karen Curtis, and Julia Murchison as they chose their word for the year and write it into their journals on January first.<br />Claire, who has just been through a devastating divorce after 23 years of marriage, choses the word \\"faithful.\\"  She wants the year to be one of new beginnings.  She never expects how her faithfulness will be truly tested.<br />Liz, a 57-year-old widow and hospital administrator has begun the year alone for the first time in her life, both her adult children having moved out of towtn in the last three months. She choses the word \\"time\\" - accepting being alone and believing she should take time to learn how to live contentedly by herself.  But can she achieve that contentment alone??<br />Karen Curtis is 28 years old and single.  She has long dreamed of becoming an actress despite her parents' disapproval.  Her word is \\"acceptance\\" that her mother will accept her for who she is and quit comparing her to her sister Victoria who is married to a successful attorney and has a young son.  The word takes on a new meaning when Karen learns she needs to accept herself.<br />Julia is totally content.  She has a happy marriage, two well-adjusted teenagers, and has recently opened her own business, a yarn shop which is doing well.   She's chosen the word \\"gratitude\\" being happy with what she has.  Will she be so grateful when, at age 40, she's faced with an unexpected pregnancy?<br />During the next year each of these four women face truths about themselves but with the love and support of the others, survive.  <br />Heartwarming and emotional are words often used to describe the stories told by the talented Ms. Macomber and THURSDAYS AT EIGHT is no exception.  Her stories are always enjoyable but this one is even more than that, it enables readers to take stock of their own lives and the people around them.  What word would you chose?<br />Maudeen Wachsmith Charter Member, Reviewers International Organization (RIO)	2001-06-11
US	53080622	R3XPFPG1ODSCF	0515130621	372328765	Never a Bride	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Delightful!!!	In order to avenge the death of her close friend Sarah, Lady Mirabella Whittingham has vowed to find the person responsible for her taking her own life.  She has Sarah's diary and the diary has revealed that the man has a raised scar on the back of his neck. So, Mirabella, being unconcerned with propriety as although betrothed, she has never seen the man and he left six years previously, never to return.  She has resigned herself to a life of spinsterhood, so the scandal she's sure to bring by kissing each of the suspects and running her hands under his cravat,means little to her.<br />What she doesn't count on is the return of her betrothed, Camden Brackley, Viscount Stonehurst.   And she is even more surprised to find that this man is the mysterious stranger she has recently met and can't get out of her mind.   They are then both thrilled to discover one another's true identity.<br />But Camden has loved and lost once before.  Six years ago he had found his then-betrothed in the arms of another man.  He had vowed never to love like that again.  So imagine is shock when he finds Mirabella in the same compromising position.   He wishes to break their engagement and Mirabella agrees.   However his family is in a very precarious financial state so he eventually gets Mirabella to go along with his ruse - they will act engaged in every way for several months - just until his family becomes more solvent - then they will quietly break off the engagement. <br />Of course, Camden's plans do not go as he had intended and he finds himself falling in love for the intelligent,  lovely Mirabella - and she with him.   It's  not long before he joins her in trying to find the man who caused Sarah's death.  <br />I am not much of a Regency historical reader - but I found this one absolutely charming. I couldn't put the book down.  A real plus in this story is the intelligence of it's two main characters, Camden and Mirabella.  Never did I feel the book deteriorate into silliness ascould have easily been the case given the circumstances.  I know when a book is particularly good when I find myself recommending it to total strangers in book stores.  Such is the case with NEVER A BRIDE.  An absolutely delightful read.  Highly entertaining.	2001-06-09
US	53080622	R13OKNJGQWAET8	0373259239	921886975	You Only Love Once (The Magnificent Mccoy Men)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Truly Magnificent	Kelli Hatfield has just returned to Washington, DC after spending several years with the NYC police force.   She decides, this one time, to throw caution to the wind and have a one night stand with the handsome man she meets in a local cop hangout.  <br />David McCoy is known as the Casanova Cop.  He's stunned to find that the woman he met and bedded the night before is none other than his newly-assigned partner!<br />Kelli tries to smooth things over by telling David she'll act as if that night never happened. David says \\"nothing doing\\" as he'd like nothing other than to pick up where they left off.<br />But Kelli knows what would happen should her father find out she was dating the son of his old nemesis and doesn't want to take the risk.  However, the heart has a way of washing away all resolve.<br />When a series of sex crimes results in the death of a woman, Kelli volunteers for the task force, thinking not only will she help find the DC Exterminator, as he's become known, but she also has something personal at stake.  Her mother was killed by a similar sexual predator years ago - a crime which remains unsolved.<br />Tori Carrington pulls out all the stops in this seductive story of nonstop action and sexy repartee.   Although this is #3 of four books in the Magnificent McCoy Men series, the books stands on its own quite nicely and the reader never feels lost.   <br />This was a thoroughly enjoyable read from start to finish.  It's recommended for anyone wanting a quick, satisfying read, and a darned good story.	2001-05-29
US	53080622	R7BAZZGET8GNS	0451202732	356949678	The Second Silence	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This Book Has it All -- Highly Recommended!	I have no idea what is wrong with these people who were so disappointed in this book. I found it well-written and absolutely unputdownable.<br />I loved the relationships between the women in this story - between mothers and daughters, particularly.  But the relationship between sisters is also highlighted.  Books where old loves are re-acquainted have often been a favorite of mine so I really enjoyed the story of Mary and Charlie who had been married briefly nearly 30 years previously, as they come together to help their daughter.<br />One review mentioned that this was soap-operish.  Maybe.  But a similar situation happened to my own daughter - false charges being made in order for her ex to gain custody of her child. Charges she was unable to fight because she didn't have the financial means to do so.  This was heartbreaking for our family so I could really identify with Mary and Noelle.<br />Noelle had married what she thought was a good catch - a stable, older man who could give her everything.  What she didn't realize was that he was a controlling, conniving, and even a crazy man who would stop at nothing to get what he wants, even trumping up charges that Noelle was drunk and unable to care for her child.  In Noelle's fight to regain custody of her five-year-old daughter Emma she and her sister, mother, and father find more than they bargained for when the truth about several three-decades-old deaths finally comes to light.<br />There's a little bit for everyone here - romance (not only between Mary and Charlie but Noelle and the young new doctor in town, teenage love between Noelle's half-sister Bronwyn and a young man who isn't exactly what her father would prefer; plus a budding romance between Mary's sister, bookstore owner Trish, and another unlikely candidate for romance).  Along with the romantic relationships are the relationships between mother and daughter, sisters, grandmothers, and other people important in the lives of the main characters.  Add that to a decades-old mystery, a kidnapping, arson fire, and more - and you have what I found to be a real page-turner.<br />Recommended for those who enjoy books by authors such as Kristin Hannah, Barbara Delinsky, Mariah Stewart, Diane Chamberlain, Georgia Bockoven, Nora Roberts, and others.	2001-05-20
US	53080622	R1LGWQJHU0XDFX	059513730X	129444951	Dinners with Famous Women: From Cleopatra to Indira Gandhi	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fun book!	The back cover says &quot;This is a culinary history cookbook with a different twist--women from different centuries tell you about the meals f their time.  You are provided with a menu and recipes for a succulent dinner inspired by the women featured in each chapter.  You can learn about a meal that Anne Boleyn enjoyed at Hampton Court with Henry VIII, eat a meal with Emily Dickinson, and celebreate Passover with Emma Goldman. &quot;<br />I think anyone interested in history would enjoy this book.  It lists the women in chronological order, then the beginning of each chapter has a bit about the woman and the menu in first person POV of the woman mentioned.  Then there's a menu, followed by recipes.  Many of the recipes have een adapted from historical cookbooks and others the author created based on her knowledge of foodstuffs of each era. The author  has a degree in cultural anthropology.	2001-04-29
US	53080622	R3N28XIZKU3NM3	0373763611	637224201	Taming The Beast	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautifully told beauty and the beast tale - with Sizzle!	I just finished, in the wee hours of the morning, a book I really enjoyed, TAMING THE BEAST by Amy J. Fetzer (Silhouette Desire - April 2001).   It's a true Beauty and the Beast tale, complete with the &quot;beast&quot; living in a large, castle-like mansion.  The story deals with Richard Blackthorne who has been horribly disfigured in an accident who has just found out he has a four-year-old daughter (after the death of his ex-wife).  He hires a nanny  (Laura) for his daughter who happens to be a former beauty queen who knows what it's like to be judged on her looks. <br />Amy J. Fetzer has done a beautiful job retelling this tale and I highly recommend the story.  She builds the sexual tension up and, without describing the hero until towards the end of the book, lends a bit of mystery to the mix as well.  The scenes where Richard goes to his daughter's room in the middle of the night so she can't see his face, are so tender.  Fetzer handles the character of the young Kelly well, also, never having her overtake the real story -- the relationship between Richard and Laura.	2001-04-26
US	53080622	R1PTWIV8CQ8PIW	0446527696	434761670	The Edge of Town	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Garlock has never been better!	Dorothy Garlock has long been one of my favorite authors and I have believed that her work has been of hardcover quality for many years so it is wonderful that the publisher has decided she is deserving of this as well.   With her hardcover debut, THE EDGE OF TOWN, she simply outdoes herself.<br />It is 1920s and Julie Jones has been left to care for her five young brothers and sisters while her father tends their farm just outside of Fertile, Missouri, her mother having died in a flu epidemic four years previously.<br />Evan Johnson has returned to town years after leaving to live with his grandparents and after serving in the Great War.  He is living with his father, the lecherous  town bully and drunk, in a rundown home, not too far from the Jones's farm.  He is immediately attracted to Julie when he saves her from his father's lecherous advances as she is walking home from town.<br />There is something sinister about as a series of brutal rapes rock the small farming community.  Who could be the culprit?  Could it be the same person who molested Julie years previously?  Julie's father's loneliness and desire for female companionship threaten to rip the family apart when he takes in a Birdie, a widow and her young daughter, falling victim to her charms.  A series of secrets are revealed and then a near tragedy threatens to spoil Julie and Evan's chance at happiness.<br />Julie is pretty typical of Garlock's heroines - strong, intelligent, caring, and not afraid of hard work.  Evan, as a hero, is a wonderful match for Julie and embodies many of the same characteristics. <br />Rich and multi-layered, THE EDGE OF TOWN is a wonderful story with rich characterization and several very dramatic scenes as the rapist is discovered as well Birdie's true background, and the outcome of an additional horrific crime, making for a real page turner.  Garlock is known for books that are a part of the series, and I am hoping we are going to see a book soon about Corbin Appleby, the young lawman who comes to town after his fiancée has been raped and murdered by a man from Fertile.<br />In the past, many romance readers have been disappointed in the books of their favorite authors once they go hardcover.  Not with this one, this is one that is very much worth paying the hardcover price.  I also hope, by being in hardcover, the books of the talented Dorothy Garlock will be discovered by more and more fans - she deserves to be a household word.  Simply outstanding reading!	2001-04-20
US	53080622	R3GN23F49G58GV	0801844428	420892205	Amish Society	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Wonderful Book for Learning about the Amish	I purchased the book Amish Society at Lapp's farm in Lancaster County.  A book that even the Amish feel is good enough to sell themselves -- worked for me.   I didn't read it until I got home from Lancaster Co., PA but it certainly explained a lot of things to me like why I saw cars in the yards of some of the Amish homes, why I saw Amish teenage boys smoking cigarettes, and how Amish sects differ.      As a grand-daughter of a related sect of plain people, The Hutterities, it was interesting to see how the Amish were similar to the Hutterites and how they differ.   In a way it seemed like voyeurism to discover what the private lives of these very private people are like.    This is highly recommended anyone visiting the Amish or wanting ot learn more about them.	2001-04-18
US	53080622	R2HABNXHPWFNMG	0671034588	361342714	Spellbound	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A wonderful Portrayal of Irish Life and Love!	SPELLBOUND by Jeanette Baker is a spectacular story.  It's set on Inishmore in the Aran Islands and is basically about Mollie Tierney, an American (born on Inishmore with an Irish father and American mother, but raised in America after her parents divorce her mother leaving with Mollie, leaving her 10-year-old son Danny with his father).  Mollie has been writing to her sister-in-law, Kerry, for several years, although they have never met, and she helps Mollie obtain a fellowship to teach school on Inishmore for a year.  But before Mollie arrives, Kerry dies in childbirth, and several weeks later Danny dies in an accident.  They leave three young children and a will giving custody of them to Danny and Mollie's mother, Emma.  But Kerry's twin brother, playwright, Sean O'Malley, has been caring for the children in the interim and is reluctant to give them up.    <br />Sean and Mollie are attracted to one another from the beginning.  But Sean knows how tough life is in the Aran Islands and believes Mollie to be like her mother, unable to handle the culture change and the isolation.  He is afraid of committing to her - feeling that she'd leave eventually - just like her mother.   He's also concerned about the children, feeling that being raised by Emma in California would be detrimental to them, despite the wishes of their parents.  It isn't too much longer before Emma, now happily married to an American doctor,  returns to Inishmore as well, and to an encounter with the ex-husband she hasn't seen in 28 years.  <br />A disastrous oil spill brings the island to an economical standstill and also an American, Russ a veterinarian from California, to the area to help save some of the marine animals.  It's clear that Russ finds Mollie attractive and Emma, feeling that Mollie would be much better off with Russ than Sean, Emma tries her best to orchestrate a love match between the two.  It's clear though that Mollie's heart is with Sean.  She just has to get him to realize she is not her mother.    <br />Jeanette Baker has written a gem of a story that portrays the struggles of the fishermen on a small island and a culture, which is unique to them.  She does a wonderful job with the children eight-year-old Marni, and five-year-old Caili, making them so lovable and likeable, I wanted to take custody of them!   There is also a subplot involving Mollie's father, Patrick, and the woman who loved him even before he met Emma.  Is it too late for them to try again?    <br />But this is Sean and Mollie's story.  And they are both sympathetic characters. And Russ, although vying for Mollie's affections, isn't a villain either.  Mollie is portrayed as a mature young woman, free of the game playing found in so many contemporary heroines.  She is intelligent, independent, but unable to resist Sean O'Malley.  <br />Will Sean and Mollie realize the love they share is real before a tragedy threatens to rip them apart?    <br />Baker excels in so many areas with this book it's difficult to know where to begin.  The feelings Sean has regarding his nieces and nephew are so endearing.  Taking care of a newborn is never easy, but Sean gives it his all.   The resentment he feels towards Mollie with the knowledge that Kerry and Danny wanted their children cared for by Emma, is very believable.  His fear of commitment to Mollie, despite his feelings, is also realistic, given her similarities to her mother.    <br />Every character in this book is so well drawn  -- not just the two main characters.  From Patrick and Emma to Caili and Marni, they all seem like people we know - or would like to know.  And with Baker's vivid descriptions, I could swear I could smell the peat fires and the brewing tea.    <br />But the real star of this book is the island of Inishmore (Inis Mór). The largest of the three Aran islands, they lie just off the west coast of Ireland.  They are so near the hustle and bustle of Galway with all its modern conveniences, yet they are so far away -- almost as if it were a different country or another place and time.  Most of the inhabitants of the Aran islands rely more on old ways than new conveniences.  Their isolation dictates that they be self-sufficient because there are times when, as near as they are to the mainland, transportation there is impossible.  Buggies and wagons are the preferred mode of transportation (although there are cars - but only one gas station and no repair shops).  The main forms of income for the inhabitants are fishing and tourism.  Many of the inhabitants speak Irish (Gaelic) which has enjoyed a renewal throughout Ireland, but particularly in the West.  Those who have been to the Aran islands or are familiar with their stark beauty, void of trees; of the miles of rock fences separating property, of the thatched roof cottages with smoke from the peat fire billowing from their chimneys, can certainly visualize the setting very well.  But with Baker's vivid description, even those unfamiliar with the area will get a good idea of what it looks like.<br />  I also enjoyed the descriptions of shops in Galway (including Kenny's Bookstore)and in Dublin (I am ready to stay at Number 31 - a real guesthouse).  <br />  Read and enjoy.  I am glad I have Jeanette Baker's other books in my TBR pile, because I certainly would be searching for them after reading this one.  I'm also ready to call Aer Lingus and book a flight to Ireland!	2001-04-12
US	53080622	R2N4BD021VNAHQ	1551668017	241077347	Firebrand (Mira Historical Romance)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A FANTASTIC CONCLUSION TO A TERRIFIC SERIES	Talk about one series I hate to see end!   I've been enjoying Susan Wiggs's books for years, and have loved her series, but this one has topped them all.  It was so enjoyable on so many levels it's hard to know where to begin.   <br />A heroine who's a bookseller and a feminist - Lucy is a heroine any reader would be hard pressed not to identify with.   There's one particular scene where Lucy is talking to one of her customers who is disparaging dime novels without ever having read one that had me sitting up and cheering.  (Does this sound familiar, romance readers?)  She even recommends books which will be vaguely familiar to romance fans.  <br />A hero who is bitter and lonely but as gentle and as nice as they come and who wants to put his daughter's needs first - that's Rand. He's a successful banker who has had some terrible tragedies in life including the loss of his infant daughter in the Chicago Fire and then his wife leaving him, the palatial home he built for her remaining mostly empty.<br />What reader won't be able to have their heart simply torn from their chest with Lucy's decision to give up custody of her daughter?  Sure, Rand is Maggie's biological father, but Lucy has cared for her for the past five years and is the only mother Maggie has known.<br />And prepare for a beautifully-written scene from Maggie's point of view as she meets her father for the first time in five years.<br />This is a fitting conclusion to the Chicago Fire Trilogy which began with THE HOSTAGE , and then THE MISTRESS.   THE FIREBRAND stands alone just fine, but I believe readers will enjoy THE FIREBRAND even more having read the first two books in the series - and particularly one scene which is told from different points of view in each of the books.<br />Well done, thanks Susan for another terrific Series!	2001-04-03
US	53080622	R2OL1DW990WXPK	0609607375	971990962	Summer Island: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quintessential Kristin Hannah!	Advice-columnist-turned-talk-show-host Nora Bridge is a national celebrity.  Her radio show on relationships is one of the most popular in the nation.  Over the years listeners have learned to trust her advice as gospel.  But everything comes falling down one day when nude photos of Nora taken nearly two decades earlier surface.  The fact that Nora posed nude isn't the worse thing - the fact that she was still legally married when she had the affair that produced the photos - is.  It makes her fans and longtime listeners feel like Nora is a sham.  They feel deceived.  They feel she has been giving fraudulent advice all this time.  How could she have given such sage advice when she had lived an immoral life herself?<br />Adding to the confusion is the fact that Nora is estranged from her younger daughter, Ruby, a struggling Los Angeles comedienne.  Ruby hasn't seen her mother in years, remembers her with hate and distaste, so when the unemployed and nearly penniless young woman is approached to do a tell-all article about her mother for $50,000, she literally jumps at the chance.  After all, she has never forgiven her mother for abandoning the family all those years ago.<br />Nevertheless, when her sister Caroline calls to tell her that Nora has been in an automobile accident and asks Ruby to come home, she does.  But things aren't all rosy and perfect - far from it.  To get away from the press while she recovers, Nora decides to go back to Summer Island, the San Juan island home where she raised her daughters before she felt she had to leave.  As Nora cannot care for herself alone, Ruby reluctantly agrees to go along.  <br />Adding to the plot are two brothers, Dean and Eric Sloan, whose family also had a place in the San Juans.  Eric is in the end stage of terminal cancer and wants to return to his family home to die.  Rushing to his side is his brother Dean, with whom he had been estranged.  Dean also was the childhood sweetheart of Ruby but they parted as teenagers - neither having ever forgotten the other in the ensuing years.<br />Nobody does relationship stories like Kristin Hannah.  Nobody.  The depth of the emotion she puts in her books (ON MYSTIC LAKE, ANGEL FALLS) is without equal.  Whereas before she has explored relationships between ex-lovers, and between husband and wife, SUMMER ISLAND is the most powerful of any of Hannah's contemporary novels and is a realistic study of the emotional bond between mothers and daughters.  There is no sugar-coating here and no easy answers to resolve the conflict between Ruby and Nora, as much as Nora wants things to be good between them again.  Instead, Ruby has to grow and see Nora as they are now -- both being adults -- before she can reconcile their differences. <br />There is romance as well as Dean gingerly renews his relationship with Ruby - who's not so sure they can make a go of it.<br />As in many of Hannah's novels, there's a deep poignancy and the story involving Eric and Dean will certainly bring tears to the eyes of even the most stoic reader.  Fans of compelling women's fiction by authors such as Barbara Delinsky or Patricia Gaffney will certainly be mesmerized by SUMMER LAKE.   There are really two stories going on here - the relationship between Nora and Ruby and the relationship between Dean and Eric - they do intertwine and the stage is set for a very emotional conclusion for which readers will want to have the hankies handy.<br />Hannah's work has been described as \\"family drama\\" and SUMMER LAKE is no exception.  This is certainly women's fiction at its very best.  For anyone who has had a rocky relationship with their mother or daughter, it will be especially meaningful.  I can't help but think that just as the fictional Nora Bridge helped others solve their relationship problems, that readers could be helped by empathizing with Ruby and Nora's touching and emotional story which tells us that what we believe to be the truth may not be as black and white as itseemed.<br />Outstanding, marvelous, and other terms used to describe highly recommended books almost seem trite in the case of SUMMER ISLAND.  It is too special a read to be simplified by such over-used terms.  Another sure-fire bestseller is in store for Ms. Hannah and another sure-fire gem of a book is in store for her readers.	2001-03-13
US	53080622	R396DX11MDCYR5	1551667894	822430253	Four Seasons	Books	5	78	81	N	N	Magnificent Story - Highly Recommended	This is a book for anyone who had a sister or, like me, wished they had a sister.<br />Jilly, Birdie, and Rose - ¾ of the four Season sisters are gathered at their childhood home in Evanston, Illinois after the death of the fourth sister, Merry.   It is Merry's last wish that will have the other three on an adventure which will not only have them searching for the child Jilly gave up for adoption 26 years earlier, but for themselves at the same time.<br />Jilly who left home years ago for elegance and wealth in Europe has returned for good.  Despite her fancy clothes and furs, she is broke and all alone.  Seemingly without purpose in life, her modeling career over, she really doesn't know who else to turn to but her sisters.  Her whole life is a sham - will she be able to tell her sisters how broke she really is?  Will she ever find the love of her life?  And will her search for the daughter she gave up for adoption be successful?<br />The second sister, Birdie, has become a physician.  Always the studious one, she has married Dennis Connor, a man who Jilly dated as a teenager, and has a teenage daughter,  Hannah, who in typical teenage fashion is giving her mother a rather difficult time. Birdie's husband, too, is giving her grief.  They don't seem to have the closeness they once had, and when Birdie insists on accompanying Jilly on  her search for her birth daughter, Dennis gives her an ultimatum - come home now or our marriage is over.  Birdie still chooses to side with her sister.  <br />Third sister, Rose has been living at home taking care of the youngest, Merry, after the death of their parents.  She really didn't mind and has juggled her caretaking duties with word  processing at home.  Rose doesn't get out much but she has traveled the world and met many people via the internet.  She has been corresponding with one person in particularly, a truckdriver who calls himself \\"Dannyboy.\\"  She hasn't let her sister in on the fact that in his emails, Dannyboy seems to be coming more and more romantically interested.  What will happen when Dannyboy insists on meeting Rose?<br />Event though the fourth sister, Merry, has died by the time the book begins, she is as much a character as any of other others and, in fact some might argue she is the most important character.  She becomes known to the reader through a series of flashbacks and via her sisters' recollections.  All that is known to the reader in the beginning is that Merry had a childhood accident leaving her forever a child.  It is her final request that brings the sisters together on a quest which makes up the second half of the book - a quest which will definitely, for all of them, reveal more than any of them had believed.<br />There are so many wonderful and realistic scenes in this book that it's hard to know where to begin.   Each sister is so different from the other, it's hard to believe they were raised by the same set of parents.  Each of them too is still baring the guilt of Merry's accident - each of them feeling somehow responsible.<br />Overall, I very much enjoyed this book.  And although I would tend to view this book more as women's fiction because of its depth, the fact that there are three characters finding love instead of just one, and the fact that the main focus of the book appears to be the growth of each character from within  -- but with finding love as a consequence of that  growth.   The use of flashbacks proved very effective in getting to know the characters.  And that's the author's strength - characterization - and she does it admirably well, giving each character their individual strengths and weaknesses, and each their individual \\"voice\\" as well.  <br />This book would appeal to readers who enjoyed THE SAVING GRACES by Patricia Gaffney, THE HOUSE ON OLIVE STREET by Robyn Carr, TALK BEFORE SLEEP by Elizabeth Berg, and even Mary Alice Monroe's previous book, THE BOOK CLUB.  <br />I found it to be one of the best books I've read so far this year and highly recommend  it as I believe it would appeal to readers of women's fiction and romance as well.	2001-03-03
US	53080622	R73PZ9J3L3V6O	0399143882	17027728	Born In Fire; Born In Ice; Born In Shame: Three Complete Novels	Books	5	13	21	N	N	My Personal Favorite of All Nora Roberts's Trilogies	Reading this trilogy, my personal favorite of all Nora Roberts's trilogy, has led to some wonderful things, the most exciting of which was visiting County Clare, Ireland, the setting for this trilogy, in the fall of 1999.<br />My favorite of the three stories is BORN IN ICE, but all three sisters' stories are terrific and I am so glad they are now available together in one volume for my keeper shelf.	2001-02-18
US	53080622	R1BOTY72J5WB70	0671785915	399661757	Voices Carry	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Gripping  Suspense - with romance!	With her previous title, BROWN-EYED GIRL, Mariah Stewart started to make a name for herself in Romantic Suspense.  With VOICES CARRY she has proven she is a force to be reckoned with and can compete with the likes of Sandra Brown, Tami Hoag, or Linda Howard any day.<br />This isn't a mystery --- the identity of the villain is known fairly early on, but it's the layer upon layer of suspense, building up to one of the most nail-bitingly suspenseful scenes I've ever read (ranks right up there with the pivotal scene in Tami Hoag's CRY WOLF), which makes this such a terrific read.<br />I loved these characters (Genna and John) as much as any I have in any book.  In this story though, although there is romance, the suspense takes a front seat.  And like I said, what suspense it is!   <br />I won't go into a synopsis here, that is well documented in other comments, all I can say is this is an absolutely unputdownable, suspenseful read, and I don't see how anyone could be disappointed.<br />The Book Wizard, Publicist	2001-02-14
US	53080622	R3E5BC9YUCQIGC	1551667991	689544283	Courage Tree	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Shows Why Diane Chamberlain is one of my favorite authors	With The Courage Tree Diane Chamberlain again proves she is one of the best writers contemporary women's fiction has to offer.<br />Despite misgivings and warnings of her parents and ex-husband, Janine Donohue has allowed her eight-year-old daughter Sophie to go off to camp with her Brownie Troup.  This is the first time she's been away from home and everyone's concern is magnified by the fact that Sophie has been seriously ill suffering from renal disease.  But recently experimental treatments have improved her condition so that dialysis isn't needed as often as it once was, affording Sophie the opportunity to go away for the weekend at camp. <br />But Sophie doesn't return.  The car in which the assistant troup leader and two of the Brownies, including Sophie, were riding, is missing.  Janine's ex-husband, Joe and her parents blame Janine.  They were not supportive of Sophie going on the trip in the first place.  In addition, they are upset that Janine has gone against medical advice to enroll Sophie in the experimental program, despite the fact that it appears to be helping.<br />Lending support to Janine is her friend, Lucas Trowell, a rather mysterious man who is the head gardener at the estate where Janine and her parents live - her parents in the mansion and Janine and Sophie in a small adjacent cottage.   Lucas and Janine have become more than friends but have kept their relationship a secret as Janine knows her parents would not approve.  In fact, they believe there is somewhat Lucas is hiding.  They even think he could be a pedophile since he seems to have such an unusual interest in Sophie.  When they find out Janine is actually having a relationship with this man, they become unglued.   <br />Joe isn't happy either.  He's very close to Janine's parents and side with them in nearly every instance against Janine.  He also believes he is still in love with Janine and would like to see them re-marry.   <br />Lucas is a mysterious character, that's for sure.Instead of living in his home, he prefers to live in a rather comfortable tree-house adjacent to it.  It becomes clear that there is something Lucas is hiding.  His comings and goings are rather mysterious, to be sure.  One evening when Lucas leaves the search scene to return home, Joe follows.  What he discovers only makes him more skeptical.  <br />In the woods near the area where young Sophie is missing, another drama is unfolding.  Aging movie star Zoe has faked her own death in order to help her daughter Marti escape from prison.  She has found a small shanty in the woods and made her own and is waiting for Marti to join her when Sophie appears - dirty, injured, and badly in need of medical treatment.  But Zoe is reluctant to get the help she knows Sophie needs, because she needs to protect her own daughter.<br />Diane Chamberlain is a master at creating tense drama and then revealing secrets a little at a time - just enough to keep the reader satisfied while turning the pages at a nearly frantic pace.  It was all I could do not to read the end of the book - the tension was so high and I was dying to find out what happened.   I am glad I read it in succession like I was supposed to because another secret, one which was very surprising, is revealed near the end of the book - one that will have the reader exclaiming, \\"Wow!\\"  <br />The characters are so well-drawn.  Janine's skeptical and devious mother is one you just want to take and shake some sense into.  All the secondary characters feel as real as the main characters.  I particularly liked the character of Joe's friend, Paula, who was a stabilizing force in his life.  Chamberlain takes the character of Joe and instead of making him into a villain as the ex-husband, shows him as a sympathetic character who really only has the best intentions regarding his ex-wife and daughter.  <br />This is a fabulous story, one that kept me reading into the wee hours of the morning.  I absolutely could not put it down and highly recommend this story for lovers of compelling and emotional dramas.  The Courage Tree is a true masterpiece of modern American fiction.	2001-02-12
US	53080622	R2JNW7332LWFR3	0553801198	77681626	Dream Country	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Something for everyone in this story	You know that &quot;ahhhhh&quot; feeling you sometimes have after reading a very good and totally satisfying book?   Well, I had that with DREAM COUNTRY.   <br />Daisy and James Tucker lived an idyllic life on the Wyoming ranch that had been in James's family for several generations.  They were happy right up until the time one of their three-year-old twins, Jake, disappears.   The marriage soon falls apart and Daisy returns to her home back east with their daughter, Jake's twin, Sage.<br />Fast forward 13 years later.   Sage has longed for the West - and for her father.  But James has stayed in Wyoming all these years, not willing to leave in case Jake returns, refusing to accept that he is gone forever.  Daisy is supporting the two them making unique, highly sought after jewelry with, some say, magical or mystical results to those wearing this jewelry.<br />One morning, after a particularly volative mother-daughter argument the night before, Daisy finds Sage missing -- and at about the same time, discovers one of the reasons she has left --she is pregnant.  She soon finds out that Sage's boyfriend is missing also.<br />Daisy is soon convinced to go to the Tucker ranch in Wyoming to wait for her daughter.  And there the continuing attraction she and James have for one another can't be denied.<br />I enjoyed this story very much.  Rice's writing reminds me so much of Kristin Hannah's stories I had to keep looking at the cover just to make certain I wasn't actually reading a Kristin Hannah book. The addition of a paranormal elements only added to its appeal. I cried buckets at the end -- a real indicator of my enjoyment of the story. As a mother of teenage boy/girl twins, one named Jake, this story hit very close to home. If I have any complaint, it is that the author chose to call Jake and Sage &quot;the twins&quot; in quite a few instances.  As a mother of twins, I know it is important that twins be seen as individuals and not lumped together -- no matter if they're identical or fraternal.  In fact, it was one of the first things I learned when joing the Mothers of Twins Club, and something they were rather militant about.  So although those instances took me out of the story several times, I was still overcome by the emotional intensity of the story.   I highly recommend this book -- and I want some of Daisy's jewelry!	2001-02-08
US	53080622	RGMOU86S11GNB	0446608149	298677784	More Than Memory	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Dorothy Garlock at her Best!	When high-school senior Nelda Hansen becomes pregnant, she is forced to wed Lute Hanson by her domineering father who orders Lute out of Nelda's life as soon as the vows are exchanged.   Soon after the birth of a daughter, Nelda returns to the Iowa home of the grandparents where she had lived for the last several years where she hears Lute has joined the Navy.  Sadly, the baby contracts an infection and dies when she is six month old, her father never having laid eyes on her.  With the help of her grandparents, Nelda then moves to Chicago where she goes to school and becomes a commercial interior designer of some renown.  <br />When she needs a break, she returns to Clear Lake, Iowa, to the farm her grandfather left her in his will.  Both grandparents are gone now but Nelda feels a sense of security in the place where she'd known such happiness all those years ago.  She hopes for a bit of R&amp;R and to re-evaluate her life.  <br />What she doesn't figure on is running into Lute.  Unbeknownst to Nelda, Lute has been renting the land which is now hers (an attorney has managed her affairs in Iowa while she was in Chicago).  Lute keeps finding excuses to help her out and eventually Nelda discovers that the ring he wears on the third finger of his left hand is not because he's married -- it's the one he had bought when they were married.  When a night of passion leads to complications neither one of them expected, Nelda is determined to withdraw from Lute and plans to move from Clear Lake as soon as possible. <br />MORE THAN MEMORY is a real page-turner, full of the grit and reality which readers have come to expect of a Dorothy Garlock novel.  Since she is writing about the town she has lived in since the 1950s, the descriptions of the town and the surrounding area are richly detailed.  She  includes some of the most tragic events of the 1950s in her story including the death of Buddy Holly, Ritchie Valens, and the Big Bopper who were killed in a plane crash outside ofClear Lake after a 1959 concert and even sets a scene at that last concert.  <br />Lute, whose dedication and caring for Nelda have lasted more than a decade, makes a wonderful hero.  A particularly poignant scene has them meeting for the first time in over eight years at their daughter's gravesite.  Nelda is sometimes too stubborn for her own good, but given her circumstances, her actions are understandable.  What seems to be stubbornness is more of a defense mechanism because she doesn't want to get hurt again.<br />I enjoyed reading a book set in 1958-59 - years of my childhood and can remember time spent at my grandparents' farm during that same time which really helped this story come alive.  I hope more authors will take the chance of writing less than traditional time-periods for their books as Garlock has.  It was, for this reviewer, like a trip down memory lane.<br />According to the notes on the copyright page, MORE THAN MEMORY is evidently a rewrite of one of Dorothy Garlock's early books written as Johanna Phillips in 1982 for the Second Chance at Love line, PASSION'S SONG.  At over 380 pages, it's more than just a simple rewrite, it's a complete re-working of the shorter novel.	2001-02-02
US	53080622	RGA3UBVIH5G1O	1551666022	772804520	Dakota Home (Dakota Series #2)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	What a hero!	Everytime I read a Debbie Macomber book I wonder why I don't read more of them.  I enjoy her easy-going style so much.  With over 100 books to her credit, it's difficult to read them all but I am sure going to try! Jeb McKenna is a North Dakota bison rancher who had lost a leg in a farming accident four years earlier and has been somewhat of a recluse ever since.   His sister has tried a ploy to get him to meet a newcomer to town, Maddy Washburn (friend of Lindsay Snyder Sinclair, heroine from the first book) who has just moved to the tiny town of Buffalo Valley, North Dakota after having been somewhat responsible for a terrible tragedy in her job as a social worker back in Savannah.  Maddy and Jeb are attracted to each other but Jeb feels that he is totally unworthy of a woman such as her.  But when a blizzard forces Maddy to take refuge at Jeb's house for several days, all that changes. Debbie tackles the difficult issue of the mechanics of Jeb making love to Maddy wearing his prosthesis in a delicate and realistic manner.  I am absolutely falling in love with this hero and in the fictional town of Buffalo Valley which reminds me a lot of the little North Dakota town where my father was raised.  She has kept me up past 2 AM now three nights in a row (first with DAKOTA BORN and now with DAKOTA HOME).  I highly recommend this series which will conclude with ALWAYS DAKOTA in May.	2001-01-20
US	53080622	RWFG0BIOZ4X8L	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a great story!	Mary Russo is a 33-year-old virgin who has been hounded by her Italian mother and grandmother to find a man.  She's doing her best to ignore them.  In an effort to assert her independence, she finally decides to open up her own Italian restaurant. The hero is Dan Gallagher, a single father who works at the Baltimore Sun.  He's been a sportswriter for 15 years and is hoping to become the sports editor when the job he wants (and deserves) goes to the owner's nephew.  He's assured this is only temporary and is given the job as the food editor and restaurant critic.  His first assignment is to determine the winner of the contest for the best-tasting ground beef recipe.  Since Dan dabbles in cooking, this is so distasteful to him he's afraid that if Gourmet or Bon Appetit find out they'll cancel his subscriptions.  His first assignment as restaurant critic is to review Mary's new Italian eatery -- problem is, he HATES Italian food.   Can you see where this is going ????   Instant conflict!  The well-drawn secondary characters enhance the story.  From Mary's parents, to her grandmother, to her best friend, Annie, to her brother Joe, the local parish priest, and assorted cousins, aunts, and uncles, every one of them adds to this delightful story.   A particularly endearing character is Dan's son, Matt, a precocious child who would rather eat pizza than his father's gourmet creations.  Dan has just obtained full custody of the eight-year-old after his ex-wife decided she wasn't cut out to be a mother.  Criswell deftly handles the aspects of Matt's feelings of abandonment as well as Dan's feelings of inadequacy as a father.<br /> In one scene Mary has finally moved into her own apartment and her grandmother has given her a statue of the Virgin Mary as a housewarming gift.  Her friend Annie tells her, &quot;Maybe you ought to consider moving it into the bathroom... Two virgins in one bedroom is too much to ask of any healthy, heterosexual male.&quot;<br />Readers will be turning the pages at a feverish pace to see if soon there's one less virgin in her apartment.   Even if Dan and Mary consummate their relationship, will there be a future for them?  Will her parents accept an Irish son-in-law into this tight Italian family? Will Mary change her mind about not wanting to settle down?<br />Known for her historical romances, Millie Criswell has really found her voice in romantic comedy and it's lucky for readers that she has.  This is a hoot.  It's Janet Evanovich without the mystery elements.   In addition to a fabulously entertaining read, Criswell has readers' mouth's drooling over more than just the hero - she has added recipes at the beginning of each chapter.  Reading just doesn't get much better than this.  Criswell's writing is as smooth as the filling of a \\"Better than Sex Cream Puff\\" (recipe included). Readers will anxiously await Annie's story in the summer, WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE.   <br />Reviewed by Maudeen Wachsmith for  Heart Rate Reviews	2001-01-12
US	53080622	R1PXESA9AU1HMX	0446608726	236551713	The You I Never Knew	Books	5	61	62	N	N	A Wonderful New Voice for Women's Fiction!	Seventeen years earlier, Michelle Turner had fled Montana, pregnant and alone, to begin a new life in Seattle. Now she's returned, to donate a kidney to her father despite their nearly two-decade estrangement. Accompanying her is her surly teenage son, Cody, who is not happy about leaving his friends in Seattle in the middle of the school year. <br />Michelle''s father, Gavin Slade, was an Oscar-winning actor who moved to Montana long before it became the northern mecca of the rich and famous. Gavin had been an absent father for most of Michelle''s life until her mother died when she was a teenager and she moved to his Montana ranch. <br />There she met and fell in love with a boy from the wrong side of the tracks, Sam McPhee, who was working for her father as a ranch-hand. Unbeknownst to Michelle, Gavin had hastened the retreat of Sam and his alcoholic mother, Tammi Lee Gilmer, before Michelle had the opportunity to tell him he was going to be a father. Over the years, Michelle had lost touch with Sam who had become a world-class rodeo champion to earn money to pursue another dream. The last person she expects to see when she returns to Crystal City, Montana is her old love. <br />Sam had returned to Crystal City, unaware that Michelle had left. One of the main reasons for his return was the chance he might run into her again. He has never forgotten his teenage love. Unaware of Cody''s existence, he is surprised to find Michelle has a teenage son. When Cody comes to Sam'sranch to work off damage done in a fender-bender, it doesn't take Sam long to see himself in Cody and he confronts Michelle. Was she ever going to tell him the truth? And how are they going to tell Cody before he finds out from somebody else? <br />This isn''t your normal \\"secret baby\\" story full of misunderstandings and longtime secrets left untold. It''s more a story of the reactions of people to the secrets which are now revealed. Susan Wiggs has added very interesting secondary character to this mix including Sam''s ex-alcoholic mother, Tammi Lee, a rather tragic character who is trying desperately to turn her life around; Sam McPhee, who, although always the movie star but, in the autumn of his years, is becoming more aware of the needs of the people in his life rather than in his own. Cody is pretty much a typical teenager --- surly, defiant on the outside - hiding a rather sensitive young man on the inside. Add to this Michelle''s unconventional but caring friend Natalie and readers are all set for a wonderful read with never a dull moment. <br />Wiggs''s description of western Montana places the reader firmly in the fictional town of Crystal City which is in the Swan mountain region not too far from the real town of Big Fork, SE of Kalispell and north of Missoula. She is able to set the scene so beautifully that even readers who have never been there can experience the grandeur that is \\"Go'd's country.\\" <br />This is Wiggs''s magnum opus - the break-out single title release for the popular, award-winning author who has been known primarily for her historical romances. She does single-title contemporary so well it's as if she invented the subgenre. At over 500 pages, there''s something going on all the time, and the novel never suffers from any lags in the action. The book is so seamless and tight the reader nears the end before they are aware of it. What a dazzling read from a well-loved author. I can''t recommend this one enough and certainly look forward to other contemporary stories from Ms. Wiggs.	2001-01-06
US	53080622	R1ODKSM04NTBE8	1575667134	173884835	Finding Ian (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Women's Fiction at its Best!!	Psychologist Byron Frazer is a success. A youthful 34 years old, his self-help books have become bestsellers and he has a popular television program. Despite his celebrity status, Byron harbors a secret. Thirteen years previously, after the deaf of his wife, he gave his newborn son up for adoption. The son, now named Ian, has never been far from Byron's thoughts. A private investigator has kept track of Ian over the years but now has some troubling news.<br />At age 13, Ian has become an orphan and has been shipped from his lifelong home in Minnesota to the elderly, maiden aunt he has never met in England. Byron, feeling the well being of young Ian is at stake, travels to the small Cornwall village to see for himself. Not content to simply observe, Byron covertly befriends the boy he last knew as Baby Boy Frazer. What he finds troubles him. Ian's Aunt Muriel seems ill equipped financially and emotionally to care for the active teenager. Ian appears sullen and homesick with an air of sadness a boy of his age should never have.<br />Since Byron has decided to spend the summer in Cornwall, he rents a cottage from an agent who conveniently neglects to tell him the cottage is to be renovated during his stay. The location itself acted as a character and it made me long to visit the Cornwall region. Vivid secondary characters add depth to the story and it was particularly grand to see how Byron's conniving agent finally gets her comeuppance.<br />I adored this story and its characters, especially Byron and Ian. I enjoyed reading how, in finding Ian, Byron finds himself as well. I've long been a fan of Stella Cameron's - through her category romances, historical romances, and romantic suspense novels - and can truthfully say FINDING IAN is my favorite. She's a welcome addition to the ever-growing world of contemporary women's fiction and I certainly look forward to more stories of this type from her.<br />The location itself acted as a character and it made me long to visitthe Cornwall region. Vivid secondary characters add depth to the story and it was particularly grand to see how Byron's conniving agent finally gets her comeuppance.<br />I adored this story and its characters, especially Byron and Ian. I enjoyed reading how, in finding Ian, Byron finds himself as well. I've long been a fan of Stella Cameron's - through her category romances, historical romances, and romantic suspense novels - and can truthfully say FINDING IAN is my favorite. She's a welcome addition to the ever-growing world of contemporary women's fiction and I certainly look forward to more stories of this type from her.	2001-01-06
US	53080622	R2MV8R30OUKV9E	042517770X	212187272	The Wrong Child	Books	4	21	22	N	N	A very entertaining read!	Abbie Bernard and her eleven-year-old daughter Kendall have just returned to Abbie's hometown of Houston.  Abbie, a researcher is anxious for Kendall to enjoy all the things the big city will allow.  When Kendall has some blood work done, it's discovered that there is no way Abbie could be Kendall's biological mother.  Abbie, of course, is stunned.  <br />Research expert she is, Abbie discovers there was another baby girl born in the same hospital just minutes after her baby.  With a bit of detective work she finds this family also lives in Houston and decides to pay them a visit making up the a story that she is doing an article on the hospital where the girls were born.  <br />Abbie visits the home of architect Logan O'Connell, a widower with two children.  She is stunned when his daughter, Erin, comes in the room.  Erin looks just like Abby did as a child.  <br />Erin is already having adjustment problems after the death of her mother two years earlier.  She has grown very close to her mother's sister, Elizabeth, and sees Elizabeth as a perfect candidate to become her new step-mother.  Elizabeth's goal is to get Logan, no matter what.  She lost him to her sister years earlier and now it's her turn to have the handsome Pierce Brosnan look-alike.<br />Abbie eventually confronts Logan with her evidence, and it doesn't take him long to realize she's right.   But what happens next?  How are they going to tell the children?  <br />THE WRONG CHILD is a dramatic tale ripped from the headlines.  Patricia Kay is wonderful at characterization.  Erin's reaction to the situation is particularly poignant.  Logan is a hero to die for and interesting secondary characters including Abbie's mother, Katherine, and Logan's conniving sister-in-law Elizabeth all add to the already dramatic scenes.<br />Patricia Kay, who has been a longtime favorite for her category romances  written as Trisha Alexander, joins the ranks of authors of women's fiction with great finesse.  THE WRONG CHILDis a story to savor and one difficult to put down once started.	2001-01-06
US	53080622	REXQUGMZE3N8J	0899668143	829916644	Katherine	Books	5	33	34	N	N	The Best Book I Have Ever Read --- 20 STARS	I enjoyed GREEN DARKNESS so much I decided to make my next read Anya Seton's KATHERINE.  It has now become my FAVORITE READ OF ALL TIME.  It is a love story of epic proportions unlike anything I've ever read or experienced.  This is truly a real-life fairytale.<br />As historically detailed as GREEN DARKNESS, I was amazed to find I loved this book even better.  Set in the mid 14th C.  Katherine de Roet is a convent-raised young woman who, with her sister, comes under the care of Queen Philippa (wife of  Edward III), and despite being without dowry marries the rather difficult Sir Hugh Swynford.  Eventually she becomes the mistress of Philippa and Edward III's son John of Gaunt, and after bearing him four children, becoming his wife.  The children's births are eventually legitimized and John and Katherine eventually are the forebears of both the Tudor and Stuart dynasties.<br />But this story is of the relationship between Katherine and John and the many twists and turns it takes before these lovers can be together.  When Katherine turns 15 the Queen summons her from the convent to Windsor and she soon gathers much attention for her beauty.   When Sir Hugh Swynford attempts to ravish her, the King's third son, John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster comes to her rescue.  Hugh gets out of the situation by saying he wishes to marry the fair young maiden.    Sir Hugh is a rather disagreeable and homely man, but it is seen as a step up for young Katherine, without dowry, to marry him.  She does but very reluctantly.   Meanwhile she is befriended by the Duke's wife, Blanche, and returns her friendship for which young Katherine is eventually richly rewarded.<br />Katherine and Hugh go to live at his mismanaged estate, Kettlethorpe, near Lincoln which is not too far from the Duke and Duchess of Lancaster's favorite home of Bolingbroke Castle.  Katherine is not exactly happy but accepts her life.  But when she befriends Blanche again and then sits with her as she lays dying from the black death, her whole life changes.<br />To give more details than this is to rob the first-time reader of the discoveries they will read.  It is a story to particularly savor as when the Duke tells Katherine \\"She is my heart's blood.  My life. I want nothing but her.\\"  Talk about a Cinderella story!   Those better versed in English history of the mid to late 14th C than I am will realize just what is happening in some of the dramatic historical scenes than I did.  <br />But even after Katherine and the Duke are finally together, all does not go well.  Seton details the history of this time beautifully and, sometimes, painfully.<br />Seton includes quotes from Chaucer  (who was married to Katherine's sister Philippa).  It is also surmised Chaucer may have had Katherine in mind for some of his passages, particularly in \\"Troilus and Criseyde.\\"<br />This book made slow reading for me as every few pages I was either picking up a historical reference to read more or searching on the internet.   I do have to warn readers though, keep the hankies handy.  I could have used an entire box and even woke my husband up with my sobbing.  Most of these tears were tears of joy though.<br />And I have to add a &quot;shame on you&quot; to the eejit who gave this book only two stars and said it reads &quot;much like any other &quot;romance&quot; novel put out by the thousands on a daily basis,&quot; which not only is a disservice to this book but to the historical romances as a whole which, it is obvious this person has very little experience with.  First of all this is a romantic historical and does not fit the definitiion of a romance novel at all.  Secondly, to say romance novels are &quot;put out by thousands on a daily basis&quot; is not only inaccurate but ignorant.  This book has both huge differences and many similarities to romances, but isn't a romance novel by any stretch of the imagination.  That said, readers who enjoy their books both historically accurate and very romantic are sure to enjoy this beautiful story.	2000-12-31
US	53080622	R14J41TFV0BL9V	0891909389	539040453	Green Darkness	Books	5	284	290	N	N	Stunning!! This should get 10 stars!!	After many, many recommendations, this was the first Anya Seton book I read.  This story of reincarnation has been in my possession for many years so I don't know why I had procrastinated for so long.  I had even picked up a hardback edition when I visited the bookstore capital of the world, Hay-on-Wye in Wales last year.  Somehow, I knew once I read it that it was going to become a keeper.   At any rate, I am sorry I didn't read it earlier, because I certainly savored every page.<br />The first portion of the book is set in 1968.  American heiress Celia Taylor has married Richard Marsdon after meeting the young British nobleman on a cruise.  They are blissfully happy and living on his Sussex estate when, during a visit to nearby ruins of a cathedral, she experiences some rather bizarre visions and her husband begins to be rather distant.  Then, after a visit and tour of Ightham Mote, a manor house in the next county, she rather mysteriously faints.   Her friend Dr. Akananda is worried.  And he, but only he, knows what is going on.  When Celia lapses into a catatonic state after hosting a dinner party, her future is very much at risk.  It appears she needs to relive the events of her prior life before she can find happiness in the present.<br />At this point, the next 400+ pages of the book is set in the 1550s beginning with a visit of the young King Edward VI to the estate where Celia, now 15-year-old Celia Bohun, is living with her aunt Ursula.   There she meets Stephen Marsdon, the young monk who has become the house priest for the estate, albeit covertly in the now protestant country, as decreed by Edward's father, Henry VIII.  Celia is immediately smitten.<br />The book is intricately detailed with history of the period and characters meet and have conversations with Edward and then Mary and other historical figures of the time as the political and religious structure of the country has gone from Catholic to protestant and then back to Catholic again.<br />It is interesting to discover who the counterparts of the dinner guests of Celia and Richard Marston in 1968 are in the 16th C.  It is clear early on that Ursula is Lily (Celia's mother) and Julian, the Italian physician, is Dr. Akananda.  Some of the other characters aren't as apparent until later and it would be seen as a spoiler to reveal them here.<br />A small warning, don't do as I did and put names of some of the secondary characters into an internet search engine.  Doing this with one character revealed a major spoiler nearly 100 years before the book told of it.  It was also very interesting to discover that two of the secondary characters were ancestors of Franklin Delano Roosevelt.  So, for those who want to know more about the historical figures - major and minor - of the 16 C., I urge you to do so but wait until the book is completed.  <br />Even though some of the details were a mystery, the eventual outcome of Stephen and Celia was pretty much known from the beginning.  That said, the next to the last portion of the book where their 16th C. destinies are played out is some of the most dramatic of the entire book.<br />I'm not much into re-reading books - but this one is certainly going on my keeper shelf.	2000-12-30
US	53080622	R33TORUYV3C7Q7	1555910807	96066483	Biblioholism: The Literary Addiction	Books	5	31	32	N	N	What a fun book!!	I could have written this book - and boy do I wish I had!   This book, which includes a test to find out if you are a biblioholic, is absolutely hilarious and I certainly could relate.  Living in a house which has been taken over by books in every room, question #22, \\"When a stranger walks into your house or apartment, are his or her first words usually a comment about your books?\\"  hit too close to home.   Another one I found particularly profound was, \\"Do you ever lie about  how many books you've bought?\\"  How true, how true.  <br />Including chapters including \\"Confessions of a Biblioholic,\\"  \\"Collectomania,\\"  \\"Fantasy Bookstore,\\"  \\"We are What we Buy\\" and one on reading in all sorts of locations, readers everywhere will be able to readily identity.  <br />My recommendation, buy one for yourself AND one for every biblioholic you know.  It's fun to discuss this with friends and even add to the list of questions.  A great gift for readers - or even for yourself.  Highly recommended!	2000-12-17
US	53080622	R1TWVFTS4HME36	0451201450	366031615	Twelve Days	Books	5	96	99	N	N	Unforgettable Family Drama!	Sam and Rachel's marriage has been going downhill for years, neither of them wanting to admit it.  Despite the fact that Sam has taken to sleeping in another room, Rachel is stunned when she overhears Sam's phone conversation revealing he is moving out after Christmas.<br />While their problems are deep, they seemed to come to the surface after the foster child (Will) they were caring for had to be returned to his biological mother.  Now neither of them are willing to care that much for a child again.  Sam and Rachel have struggled with infertility ever since the death of their premature daughter twelve years previously.  They gave their heart to young Will only to have it shattered.  <br />Twelve days before Christmas Rachel's aunt, a social worker, shows up on their doorstep with three young children in tow.  It seems they have been abandoned in a local motel by a mother who promised she'd return.  Rachel and Sam are still on the list of approved foster homes and despite the fact that neither of them feel they want to risk their heart again, they have no option but to keep the children  -- at least through the Holidays.<br />This is an emotional story, reminiscent of Kristin Hannah's \\"family dramas.\\"  I love it when you have a couple who has had some sort of problem to work through which leads to them almost parting -- or sometimes actually separating/divorcing.  The characters of Sam and Rachel as well as that of the three children, Emma, Zach, and Grace are ones that will stay with the reader long after the last page is turned.   There were no easy answers for Sam or Rachel here.   Their problems are realistically portrayed.  If you enjoyed books such as ANGEL FALLS by Kristin Hannah, COAST ROAD by Barbara Delinsky or MOMENTS IN TIME by Mariah Stewart, chances are you will enjoy TWELVE DAYS as well.  The book is simply unforgettable and I can assure you it will be going on my keeper shelf for re-reading every Christmas season	2000-12-09
US	53080622	R3GJQTQUZYSN86	0345438817	934434205	Welcome to the Great Mysterious	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another Lorna Landvik Gem	Broadway star Geneva Jordan is at a crossroads in her life.  She has recently completed a starring role in a hit musical and has recently broken-up with her former co-star after a long relationship.  She receives an SOS from her twin sister Ann in Minnesota asking her if she will come and look after her sister's son, Rich, for a month as has the opportunity to accompany her teacher-husband Riley on a trip to Italy.  <br />Although Geneva  has mixed feelings about caring for her Down-syndrome nephew, her loyalty to her sister finally wins out and she travels to Minnesota.  She has no idea how dramatically her life will change.  Geneva is an unusual heroine.  Sometimes brash, sometimes child-like, she is an enigma to most who know her.  But back at  home in Minnesota she regains a part of her past that she thought she had lost during her life as a celebrity. And there's romance, too, as a recently-divorced father helps Geneva get over her recent break-up.<br />Lorna Landvik has written another story full of the same wit and emotion that made her PATTY JANE'S HOUSE OF CURL such a favorite with readers.  Landvik chronicles life in the Midwest beautifully in this book full of endearing characters.  With laugh out loud moments as well as tears, readers won't be able to help but love this story complete with several surprises.  I look forward to reading Landvik's other books as well and am glad I already own them.	2000-12-03
US	53080622	R31Z97FET0EN17	074340341X	810127421	A Season in the Highlands	Books	5	30	32	N	N	For Fans of Everything Scottish	These five novellas take readers on a journey to the Scottish Highlands - those who are not already in love with the heather-covered hills and strong Highlanders will certainly be when they finish this book. I am not usually a huge fan of anthologies but this book has changed my mind.  These are great reads for the busy woman who doesn't have time to sit and read an entire book in an evening.<br />  UNFINISHED BUSINESS<br />by Jude Deveraux<br />Contemporary Romance<br />New York attorney Tyler Stevens has always looked after her young cousin Kristin Beaumont.  When Kristin becomes ill and is unable to accompany her boss, tycoon businessman Joel Kingsley on a trip to Scotland, Tyler takes her place.  There she helps solve a murder mystery hundreds of years old and finds the love that has eluded her all her life.  While a few inaccuracies and improbabilities near the beginning of the novella might take the more discerning reader out of the story, this is a pleasant tale which should please devoted Deveraux fans.  Those who are looking for her to return to her earlier brilliance will be disappointed. Despite the fact Deveraux's name on the cover will probably make this book a bestseller, her story is the weakest of the five.<br />FALL FROM GRACE<br />by Jill Barnett<br />(rewrite of \\"Saving Grace\\" from 1993's HIGHLAND FLING Anthology) Historical Romance (1600s)<br />When the branch of the tree Grace McNish is sitting in breaks landing her right on top of who she believes to be a dastardly McNab - sworn enemy of the McNish Clan - Grace believes it to be an act of God and hatches a plan to hold the unsuspecting (and unconscious) Highlander for ransom.  Jill Barnett delights readers with her trademark humor in this novella set around the historic feud between the McNab and McNish clans.  There's truly a laugh a minute in this charming tale complete with a female bagpiper who's partially deaf.  I just love Barnett's heroines - strong but a bit awkward, smart and caring. Those of you who remember this story from the Highland Fling anthology should be aware this story is a COMPLETE rewrite.  Although the basic plot is the same, many, many things are different. Warning: Don't read this in public unless you want to be victim of strange looks - you'll be laughing out loud for sure!  There's rarely a better reading experience than a story by Jill Barnett.<br />COLD FEET<br />by Geralyn Dawson<br />Historical Romance (1886)<br />Texan Rand Jenkins travels to Scotland to deliver Sarah Ross to her husband, the Marquess of Weston, and becomes the \\"Pied Piper of Pussycats\\" after stopping at the cottage of Annie Munro to ask for directions.  Is Annie really a witch or just the local herbalist?  One really wonders - even Annie who appears to have cast a spell over Rand as well.  Annie doesn't know why the cats are attracted to Rand and he is getting mighty irritated.  Of course, it doesn't help matters when he finds he's allergic to them.  Geralyn Dawson gives readers yet another Texan meets Highlander story to savor as she did with Simmer All Night and Sizzle All Day (the main characters of which make appearances in this novella).  This is yet another winner from  Ms. Dawson with a nice twist at the end.<br />THE MATCHMAKER<br />by Pam Binder<br />Time Travel Romance (Present Day to 1500s)<br />The contribution of talented newcomer Pam Binder (The Inscription, The Quest) has Edinburgh baker Kathleen Mackenzie and American computer whiz Duncan MacGreggor thrown back in time right into the middle of one of the more shocking events of Scottish history - the murder of Mary Queen of Scots' friend Riccio carried out at the direction of her husband, Lord Darnley.  This is a not-too-often used concept as both hero and heroine and thrown back into time and together use their skills to adapt to the time period while there as well as to figure out how to return to the present. There's some nail-biting moments here as they try. I particularly enjoyed thisstory as I had spent time in Edinburgh and toured the Palace of Holyroodhouse last year. The historical details are well executed and the plot and characters so well done I was sorry it wasn't a complete book. And the sexual tension - ooh la la!   This is such a wonderful story that I am quite certain readers who discover Pam Binder via this novella will be search for her other two books - and will look forward to her next The Enchantment in the summer of 2001.  Simply outstanding!<br />THE CHRISTMAS CAPTIVE<br />by Patricia Cabot<br />Historical Romance (1827)<br />Cabot is the only author in this anthology whose books I hadn't read before.  \\"Mairi\\" flees the estate where she's lived for the past ten years after the death of her parents as the ward of Alistair MacLean, Lord Sutherland.  After caring for her, he has now become her fiancé as well.  Apparently she has reasons not to wed him and escapes to the estate of the Duke of Camden only to discover the Duke as died and his eldest son Euan has taken over.  Visiting his brother is Niall, recently having graduated from studies to become a physician.  When Niall discovers \\"Mairi\\" has an injury needing immediate attention, he comes to her aid.  The sparks soon fly but Niall does not know who Mairi really is and she isn't giving out any detailed information. While Ms. Cabot seems fond of run-on sentences (one leaving me out of breath as it went on for an entire paragraph) and left the secrets unrevealed for longer than was desirable for a novella, her storytelling and characterization were strong enough for me to look forward to her book Lady of Skye in 2001. The main ingredients are there and she needs just a bit more polish.<br />Reviewed by Maudeen Wachsmith for Romancing the Celtic Soul	2000-11-30
US	53080622	R250YO84WQRH69	0505524139	939841716	The Star King (Star Series, Book 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Not just for readers of Sci-Fi Romance or Futuristics	The heroine of THE STAR KING, Jasmine Boswell Hamilton, is a former pilot turned artist now living in Arizona, the divorced mother of twin teenagers.  She has had visions of a mysterious man ever since an accident which halted her Air Force career years previously.  When aliens visit earth, Jasmine, tired of putting her life on hold, decides what she needs is a bit of adventure and talks her way onto the airship piloted by the man from her vision, Romlijhian B'kah - a man who has been an outcast from his family, the rulers of the planet Sienna, ever since a tragedy nineteen years earlier.  <br /> A more sensual hero than Rom would be hard to find in any romance.  Readers will also love Jas - an over 40 heroine with a less-than-perfect body which Rom finds very sexy.<br /> Even if you or you haven't read a science fiction or aviation romance before, this is a story which truly proves love is timeless and I encourage you to give THE STAR KING a try.  Trust me, it's a book difficult to put down once begun. Readers will be chomping at the bit for THE STAR PRINCE in 2001.	2000-11-30
US	53080622	R3CN2S9VXX9BNE	0312975651	251671300	Our Husband	Books	4	76	80	N	N	A highly entertaining read!	What happens when three very different women find they are married to the same man?  And then what happens when he suddenly dies and each becomes a suspect in his murder?  Readers will find out in OUR HUSBAND the first single-title release by Stephanie Bond (aka Stephanie Bancroft) who has entertained romance readers with her romantic comedies.<br />However, OUR HUSBAND isn't really a romance, but a comedy with mystery -- and as such it works very well. The three wives couldn't be any more different from one another -- one is a socialite, one a doctor, and the other a stripper! Readers who enjoy the books of authors such as Olivia Goldsmith and Jane Heller are sure to like this book.  Filled with the witty repartee which has become Stephanie Bond's forte, readers will laugh out loud at this very enjoyable, entertaining story.  I've enjoyed her books ever since IRRESISTIBLE and am thrilled to continue to follow her as she takes this new path.	2000-10-28
US	53080622	R3KM7MLIO0MM8Y	0684864843	526930828	The Vineyard: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another Wonderful Barbara Delinsky Novel	Once again I am recommending a Barbara Delinsky book --  It's nearly 3 AM in the morning and I've had tears streaming down my face.  I could NOT put this book down.   When I first started the book I was a bit disappointed.  There was such a huge cast of characters I was becoming confused and the details of grapes and winemaking seemed to bog the story down.   But since I've had good luck in the past with Barbara Delinsky books, I kept with it.  Boy, am I glad I did!<br />Seventy-six-year-old Natalie Seebring is a recent widow - six months to be exact.  Naturally, when they receive invitations to her wedding, her children are rather taken aback - not only is she marrying so soon after their father's death, but she is marrying Carl Burke, the manager of their vineyard of all people!   <br />Olivia Jones's job as a photo restorer is just about finished as her boss is retiring.  When she receives word that Natalie Seebring, whose photos she's been restoring, is looking for an assistant, she asks her boss to recommend her.  This sounds like the perfect solution for her for the summer.  A young single mother, Olivia is concerned about her 10-year-old daughter Tess who just doesn't seem to fit in with her classmates.  This will be the perfect opportunity for Tess and a good interim position for Olivia while she looks for another, more permanent position.  Besides, after restoring all these photos she feels she knows Natalie's family - and is curious, wanting to learn more.<br />The job as Natalie's assistant is idyllic for Olivia.  She finds a tutor who is experienced in teaching dyslexic children like Tess, Carl can teach Tess tennis, and she is signed up for sailing lessons at the local yacht club.  And Olivia fits right in - the Rhode Island vineyard has been having a rash of quitting employees --  and Olivia is thrown right into the mess and acts as if she's always worked there.<br />As Olivia helps Natalie write her memoirs, she learns more of the mystery of  her life- why did she marry Alexander Seebring when she had been so in love with Carl, her childhood friend and teenager love interest?  <br />More of a mystery though is Simon Burke, the brooding son of Carl.  Simon has been managing the vineyard for the past six years and keeps busy with the work which has become his life after the tragic death of his wife and daughter in a sailing accident four years previously.<br />Barbara Delinsky is a master at creating an emotional story - and with THE VINEYARD she gives readers two romances - the one of Carl and Natalie told mostly in backstory through the book Olivia is helping Natalie write, and the budding relationship between Simon and Olivia.<br />Readers who are able to get through the first part of the book will be richly rewarded by a beautiful story. She details the workings of a Rhode Island vineyard so vividly readers could easily visualize the setting and smell the grapes.  I am now itching to read the books in Delinsky's backlist that I've missed.	2000-10-27
US	53080622	RREXANEX0LH1O	067103619X	690095340	Lake News	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A wonderful story - very timely	I've never read a book by Barbara Delinsky I haven't enjoyed. So why did it take me nearly two years from the time I bought LAKE NEWS to read it?  I'm not sure, but I am sorry I didn't read it sooner.  This is a fabulous story and very timely.  <br />Lily Blake has had a longterm friendship with Father Francis Rosetti.  When he is elevated to Cardinal, an unscrupulous newspaper reporter, in his attempt to dig up some dirt, accuses Lily and Father Rosetti of having an affair.  This results in a media frenzy, Lily losing her jobs (music teacher and a singer/piano player at a private club) and having to flee her Boston home.  <br />Unable to afford an attorney to help clear her name, she seeks refuge in her hometown of Lake Henry, New Hampshire.  Although she hides out at first, Lake Henry takes care of their own.  Befriending her is John Kipling, the editor of the local newspaper, THE LAKE NEWS.  <br />John has always wanted to write a book and with the news of Lily's alleged affair he feels he has the perfect subject.  When he discovers her pleas of innocence, he decides the theme of her story can be the misuse of power by the press and paparazzi  (which at one point in the story are called \\"princess murderers).  But as he gets to know Lily and begins to fall in love with her, it's clear that his goals have to be something a bit different.   He attempts to exonerate Lily by discovering what made the reporter want to exact revenge on Lily and/or Father Fran in the first place.<br />This is a compelling read, absolutely unputdownable.  I was up until nearly 3 AM in the morning finishing it.  Delinsky is a wonderful writer and storyteller!   Both John and Lily have issues with their parents to deal with in an attempt to get to know themselves better.  There's a wonderful little secondary romance between Lily's younger sister and a writer who is also attempting to write a book on the brouhaha.   I also loved the way Lily dealt with her 10-year-old niece, Hannah, an awkward child who just needs some extra TLC.<br />And how, do you ask, do you follow-up such a wonderful read?  By reading another Barbara Delinsky book, of course!  I'm off to grab THE VINEYARD off my TBR pile!<br />Maudeen Wachsmith, Charter Member Reviewers International Organization (RIO)	2000-10-25
US	53080622	R1351XJH2LW0DS	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Unusual Story - Gifted Writer	This is a very unusual story.  This does not mean it's bad - or that it's good - just that it's different.  Schwarz is a gifted writer but has an unusual method of telling her story.  Instead of it being told in a linear fashion, the mystery is revealed just a bit at a time via recollections of two of the main characters.   I found the first 2/3 of the book quite compelling, but once I figured out the gist of the story and the answers to the mystery, I wanted it to get to the end a bit quicker than it did.  <br />The synopsis has been told numerous times in other reviews, so I won't go into it here.  <br />Amanda is a disturbing character who has been a little &quot;off center&quot; since she was a child.   The author keeps true to this character by revealing what happened the fateful night of Mattie's death just a little at a time through Amanda's eyes -- and then through her niece Ruth -- who always insists she also drowned that night.<br />As far as an \\"Oprah\\" selection goes, it is not my favorite, but it's not the worst one either.   I would consider reading other books by this author and will look forward to seeing what she comes up with for her sophomore effort.	2000-10-22
US	53080622	R1WLT0VU3RIKVL	0743407059	568855770	The First Time	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Magnificent -- But Keep the Hankies Handy!!!	Mattie and Jake Hart have been married for 16 rather tumultuous years.  Married because Mattie was pregnant, they have remained together mainly for their daughter's sake. A handsome, high-profile defense attorney,  Jake has been unfaithful throughout their marriage and Mattie has just about had enough.  Before she's able to confront him, Jake tells her that he's moving out. <br />Mattie had been having some bizarre physical symptoms and is finally convinced by her friend Lisa, a physician, to undergo tests.  The results are devastating to the entire family. Mattie tries to deny her diagnosis and goes merrily on with life - almost too merrily, buying a new Corvette despite the fact she's been warned she shouldn't be driving, expensive new clothing, and even a first-class airplane ticket to Paris.  She spurns assistance from anyone-especially Jake.<br />Also a huge character in this story is Jake and Mattie's teenage daughter Kim.  Kim has been her mother's defender for years -- during all her parents arguments, she was there rushing to take her mother's side.  When she's told of Mattie's illness, Kim is willing to be there for her as well.<br />Soon, circumstances cause Jake to move back home.  He knows he should care for Mattie so why not just pretend? It will make her last days more meaningful - but what he doesn't plan on is to fall in love with his wife - for THE FIRST TIME.<br />Joy Fielding has written a highly entertaining, emotional story which is difficult to put down once started.  However, this is not a story for those wanting a story which is sugar-coated and where miracles occur.  It simply isn't that kind of a book.  Although this book has been marketed toward a new audience for Ms. Fielding who has formerly written suspenseful novels, I'm not sure many romance readers are going to care for it.  That said, readers who like romantic stories will absolutely love it.   Readers who enjoyed books like Barbara Delinsky's THREE WISHES should enjoy this story as well.  <br />The quality of Fielding's writing is outstanding.  Rich characterization, poetic prose, and the ability to bring the emotional climax to a rising crescendo all combines for one of the best books of this - or any other year.<br />---Maudeen Wachsmith, Charter Member Review International Organization (RIO)	2000-10-18
US	53080622	R23BBGNKGEIEXM	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A  delight!	Florist Julie Roseman Roth doesn't remember a time when her family didn't hate the Cacciamani family, but she has no idea what the original feud was about. When she runs into Romeo Cacciamani, the owner of a rival flower shop, at a seminar, she accepts his invitation for a cup of coffee and enjoys his company.  When her daughters find out, they are shocked to find their mother would have anything to do with the arch enemy.  Despite telling them she won't see Romeo again, Julie has no intention of following through.  As the meddling families interfere, all heck breaks lose.  <br />Jeanne Ray is a fresh new voice for romantic fiction!  This is a new take on a very old story.  Having the two main protagonists in their 60s was a stroke of genius!  One of the most delightful books of the year.  Highly recommended.	2000-10-17
US	53080622	RPCXU6BEHEPR8	1551666081	942164636	Refuge (Mira)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Great Romantic Suspense	Jasmine Cresswell has crafted a very suspenseful story with engaging characters.  When Marisa Joubert takes a job at the former stately mansion turned home for unwed mothers, she is thrilled.  The job comes with free child care for her young son, and an apartment at a bargain rate. However there are sinister forces at work here. The altruistic endeavors of the Wainscott Foundation serve as a cover-up for more nefarious deeds.  I loved this story.  This was the first Jasmine Cresswell book I've read and I can assure you it won't be the last.	2000-10-11
US	53080622	R29CR5FVVWK28Y	0515129259	548963094	All I Want for Christmas	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Just What *I* Want for Christmas!	Widow and young mother Susan Carpenter is well known in the town of Angel Falls for her lavishly decorated house at Christmastime.  From lights to live nativity scene to Christmas carols it attracts crowds from miles around.  Not everyone is fond of Susan's elaborate display.  Her neighbor Don Rawlins and his godson, Luke Potter have joined forces to sue Susan (who is lovingly known as Suzi Christmas) to force her to take down her display as it is seen as creating hardship with all the noise which forced her next-door neighbors to move from their rented home owned by Mr. Potter.<br />Luke Potter's nickname of \\"Scrooge\\" seems to be well-deserved as he has also petitioned the mall not to hire the Dickens singers for the Christmas season since too many shoppers are too busy listening to them than to shop at his computer store.   But this excuse hides his deeper pain - the memories of this childhood.  Luke Potter wasn't always a scrooge.  But when as a young boy his father left his mother on Christmas, he would rather the holiday just go away.  A successful businessman, he's more intent on building his own business empire than in any hokey Christmas celebrations<br />Susan has tried pretty successfully to make a life for herself and her young son after the death of her husband five years previously.  She feels that keeping the Christmas display tradition she and her husband had begun is a way of keeping his memory alive.  Susan has also struggled to make a living with her singing telegram business.<br />Luke will have none of it.  When Susan tries to settle their differences amicably, Luke hangs up on her telling her he'll \\"see her in court.\\"  Luke's brother Ben is present one evening at a local restaurant when he sees a shapely woman deliver a singing telegram to a birthday celebrant.  Thinking this would be a good way to get his brother out of his depression, he hires her telling her it's Luke's birthday the next day.  When he finds out SHE is Suzi Christmas, Ben tells her his brother's name is Nick (short for Nicholas) Claus and the seeds of deception are sown.<br />Luke asks Susan out to dinner thinking perhaps if he could act as if he were her friend, as \\"Nick\\" perhaps he could help her see the error of her ways and she would willingly take down her Christmas display.  Amazingly, Luke and Susan hit it off.  She hasn't felt this way about a man since her husband died.  For Luke, who has been afraid of commitment, the feeling is mutual.  But what will happen when Susan discovers the truth of who Nick really is?  Will these two likeable people find the happiness they deserve?<br />Beautifully drawn secondary characters add depth to this wonderful novel including Susan's sister Nicki, her boyfriend Todd, and Nicki and Susan's widowed father who has a romance of his own with a woman's whose identity will be quite a surprise to everyone.<br />Sheila Rabe who has written 13 Regency romances, makes her contemporary romance debut with the heartwarming ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS.   This could be subtitled Ebeneezer Scrooge/Mr. Potter/The Grinch meets It's a Wonderful Life/Miracle on 34th Street.   A wonderful novel to start the Christmas season, this book could well become a classic. As I was reading it I was thinking about what a wonderful Christmas movie this would make!   It would also make a wonderful Christmas gift/Stocking stuffer --- buy several and set aside a few hours to sit and read this book - you won't be able to put it down once you begin.  This is a sweet story that will leave readers with a warm and cozy feeling. Welcome back to the world of romance, Ms. Rabe!  You were sorely missed!  (Maudeen Wachsmith for HEART RATE REVIEWS)	2000-10-06
US	53080622	R1WCI0DWAJXXIL	014025448X	813188609	At Home in Mitford	Books	5	17	17	N	N	I'm Ready to Move to Mitford!	What a wonderful book!  I am writing this after I have read the entire series and am waiting with baited breath for the next book.  I love the way Jan Karon tells a story bringing in all the quirky characters of a small town and making the reader feel a part of the scene.  From the time Father Tim meets the stray dog, Barnabas (who, as fate would have it only responds when Father Tim quotes scripture to him) to the scenes at different settings around town, I loved this book and this series like I've loved no other.  My mother, in her 80s, has read them and then passed them on to a friend of hers (whose husband, now deceased, was a pastor in the town of Blowing Rock, NC, the town where the author lives and which was an inspiration for the town of Mitford).   These are stories to be savored and read again and again.  Very highly recommended!	2000-10-04
US	53080622	R3J59ZENIIKY72	1551666138	147005703	Return To Promise	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A Heartwarming Story from the Quintessential Storyteller	One of the first romances I ever read was a Debbie Macomber book so I credit her with my current love for the genre.  With RETURN TO PROMISE I am reminded just why I enjoy her books so much.   She's able to weave a story so seamlessly and make it so heartwarming.<br />Jane, a physician, and Cal, a rancher, have been married several years and have two young children when Jane's father breaks his hip and Jane returns to her California hometown for a few weeks, children in tow.  When she is in California, she realizes it is no longer her home and yearns for her new hometown of Promise, Texas.<br />Meanwhile, Cal is lost without Jane.  Although he was a bachelor for many years, he has come to rely on Jane so much and finds himself feeling lonely.  When complications require Jane remain in California, he finds himself a bit resentful. <br />Nicole Nelson has just returned to Promise with one thing on her mind - to seduce Cal.  She doesn't care that he's married - it just makes the game more challenging.  When she hears Jane is out of town, she figures she has more of a chance to succeed in her malicious endeavor.  Nicole's actions seem rather innocent at first - but it soon becomes evident that she has an ulterior motive in mind.  Will Cal and Jane's marriage survive this invasion?<br />We also meet many of the people of Promise, but readers who haven't read the other Promise books won't feel left out.  What a skill it is to write a sequel like this and make it stand alone!  <br />RETURN TO PROMISE reminds me of Jan Karon's \\"Mitford\\" series - a heartwarming story, set in a small town, with many endearing secondary characters.  <br />After reading RETURN TO PROMISE, readers will be anxious to read the stories featuring the other residents -- Lonesome Cowboy, Texas Two-Step, Caroline's Child, Dr. Texas, Nell's Cowboy, and Lone Star Baby.<br />There is rarely a  better reading experience than a Debbie Macomber book!	2000-10-02
US	53080622	R1BOI22I5M7QLU	0671034065	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Sensuous Thriller	I've long been a fan of Linda Howard's work -- since her category romance days.  At first I mourned her move from romance to romantic suspense but I needn't have worried. She's able to give readers nail-biting suspense while not ignoring the romantic aspect of the story.  <br />Jaine and Sam are a great couple -- a favorite scene has Sam - naked - in his home and Jaine unable to take her eyes off him - even as she is calling him to tell him he should close his curtains.<br />The premise of the media frenzy over four co-workers' list of attributes for the perfect man makes interesting reading.<br />I would recommend this more for women readers; men may enjoy it as well.	2000-10-02
US	53080622	R14P2O9VWP4TNQ	1551666103	672867913	Mistress (Mira)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Susan Wiggs at her very best	With a backdrop of the Great Chicago Fire, THE MISTRESS features a counterfeit heiress who marries a fraudulent bachelor under false pretenses.  <br />Kathleen O'Leary (yes from *that* O'Leary family) has always wanted to be rich -- so under a veil of deception she attends a society function and meets the wealthy man of her dreams who isn't all he pretends to be.  <br />Dylan Kennedy is a grifter.  Down on his luck, he figures what better way to attain great wealth than to marry an heiress?  The lovely Kathleen seems the perfect candidate.<br />Susan Wiggs has written another winner of a story.  I can't wait to read the third in this series, Lucy's story, THE FIREBRAND.	2000-09-27
US	53080622	R53CMPGPEX7LL	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Enjoyable look into the producer's world	I rather enjoyed this book, despite reading the negative reviews.  I had read the reviews here, decided not to buy the book, then when I saw it in the store, looked through it and decided it was worth my time and  money.  I'm not sorry I did.  It was easy to read, and interesting to revisit the Survivor contestants and episodes.  It was interesting to read that Burnett wrote this as the show was filmed, not afterwards which makes his comments even more interesting.  It's like reading production notes.  Yes, there were a few inaccuracies and typos but nothing really jarring.  I liked hearing what Burnett thought of the contestants.  There's an interesting Q&amp;A with Richard at the end of the book, too.  Overall, recommended for fans of the show.	2000-09-25
US	53080622	R14FBAEY2JRACF	157856090X	309207151	The Blossom and the Nettle (California Chronicles #2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely Spectacular Read	Emmeline  Amity Callahan has always been an outcast.  Not pretty and vivacious like her half sisters, she is also socially inept and ill-at-ease with the Washington, D.C. social scene that is part of her world as the stepdaughter of Senator James Dearbourne, who readers will remember from WHEN THE FAR HILLS BLOOM (1999).   <br />When her step-grandmother Sara Dearbourne, offers to give her the family rancho, she jumps at the chance.   Sara's offer is only good if Emmeline can show a profit she does some research and plans an orange grove on the land.<br />She arrives in California after having gone to Brazil where she obtained Bahia orange seedlings.   Meeting her train is Quaid Dearbourne, the son of her stepfather's brother, Spence and his wife, the former Aislin Byrne whose family owns the land adjacent to the Dearbourne's.   His grandmother Byrne has just made a similar proposition to Quaid, she will give him the Rancho de Paloma land if he can show he is able to make it profitable.  His cousin, Merci Byrne, daughter of his mother's sister Brighid, is disappointed when she isn't the one to inherit the rancho.  However, Merci has a far more serious problem to deal with when she discovers the secret to her heritage - that her birth was the result of her mother's rape.  Thinking of herself as being unworthy since she is the product of evil, Merci flees the rancho to go to Los Angeles.  <br />In her quest to find work and to be independent of the Byrne family, Merci puts her life in danger.  When she is forced into prostitution, she accepts her fate as a daughter of evil. She believes herself to be unworthy of anyone's love, including God's.<br />Meanwhile, Quaid and Emmeline are involved in a battle of wills.   Eager to find a way to provide needed water for her orange grove, Emmeline discovers what may appears to have been someone falsifying water rights maps.  Quaid, who has the most to gain from this, is the prime suspect.  Emmeline whose feelings for Quaid hasevolved from friendship to love, is devastated.  <br />Merci, in the meantime, has fled from the control of the man who had her working as a prostitute and has found refuge in a central California mission and although she now feels somewhat safe, she still cannot accept the fact that she is unclean.   Her mother and her Indian friend search for her but when they get close, are told by a wise friend that perhaps Merci needs to find her own way and come back on her own terms.  Reluctantly, they return to the rancho.  Fortunately  for Merci, she finds an ally in another former prostitute who has found shelter at an abandoned mission.  And, although Merci still doesn't accept that she is a child of God, she does agree to stay at the mission for a while.<br />Quaid has always cared for Merci, as their respective parents' only children, they have always been as close as sister and brother instead of cousins.   Knowing the danger Merci still faces, Quaid decides it is up to him to find her and bring her home.   Merci, though, feels hopeless.  Will Quaid find her before it's too late?<br />THE BLOSSOM AND THE NETTLE is a complex tale, beautifully told as only someone of Diane Noble's talent can.  As with WHEN THE FAR HILLS BLOOM, Noble's love of her native California is readily apparent.    Readers will not be able to put this book down once they begin.   Those who are looking for a compelling, inspirational read need look no further.   Ms. Noble is able to skillfully integrate details of life in 1880s California with the story in such a way as to make the reader feel a part of Emmeline, Merci, and Quaid's world.<br />Readers will anxiously await the third book in the California Chroncles, trilogy, AT PLAY IN THE PROMISED LAND, the story of Emmeline and Quaid's daughter, Juliet Rose Dearbourne.	2000-09-24
US	53080622	R3P86TM1HS9PCL	0449002063	414731976	Swan's Grace	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Linda Francis Lee does it again!	Linda Francis Lee has followed her wonderful DOVES WAY with the second  book in the series about three Boston brothers and the women they love.  In  SWANS GRACE the heroine is a well-known cellist who has been summoned home  from a European tour by her father.  Several surprises await her, not the  least of which is her home has been sold and . . . well, perhaps you'd be  best off reading the book to discover the really shocking surprise!   Suffice to say it changes her life -- but Sophie doesn't think for the  better -- at first.  Linda Francis Lee is an author of rare depth and  talent. I'm told that to research this book she actually took cello  lessons.  Now *that's* dedication!  Anyone who enjoys the novels of such  authors as Betina Krahn or Susan Wiggs should enjoy this as well.	2000-09-07
US	53080622	R23FIWJ9UKTHZ5	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sizzle and Wit!!!!!!!!!	YOWSA!!  I thought this book would spontaneously ignite in my hands it had  so much sexual tension!   This, combined with a fabulous story, your  quintessential alpha male in Jake Dolan, and a strong heroine in Marnie  Wright, is a recipe for a sure-fire bestseller.  There's LOL humor as well.  I can hardly wait to see what Cherry Adair has up her sleeve for her next  book -- perhaps books for Marnie's four brothers???	2000-09-07
US	53080622	RYK265Q44XHUG	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Keep the Hankies Handy!	For a wonderful story of love and devotion, I highly recommend THE  NOTEBOOK by Nicholas Sparks. The story, taken from the life of the author's  wife's grandparents is the story of Noah and Allie who initially meet just  before World War II. Most of the story is told in flashback as Noah is  reading it to someone in a nursing home over 50 years after the initial  meeting.<br />This is so beautifully done but I must warn everyone to have the  hankies ready!	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R3DJK46QK5S7JH	0671028235	63559967	Fly Away Home	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Compelling and Emotional!!	FLY AWAY HOME is the perfect book to cozy up with as the days are getting  longer -- Kim Cates has created interesting characters whose reactions are  totally believable.  Loving Ireland the way I do, it was easy to imagine  the setting for Eve's castle and the neighboring horse farm.  I hope Ms.  Cates has more contemporary Irish settings for readers in the future. I  loved the way she resolved the relationship between mother and daughter.   Highly recommended!	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R1808CNYD0MW1H	038079960X	379285845	The Mermaids Singing	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Enchanting!!!	Give me a book set in Ireland and I'm a happy woman.  Give me a book set  in Ireland that's this beautifully written and I'm ecstatic!  This book was  recommended to me by a friend of mine who is an American who is married to  an Irishman and lives in Ireland.  Knowing her high literary standards, I  grabbed this one right away.  I was not disappointed in the least.  My  19-year-old daughter also loved the book, proving this story is meaningful  to readers of all ages.  I can hardly wait to see what Ms. Carey comes up  with for her next release!	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R3FLSZSZJLQ5GW	0804117586	656109308	Night in Eden	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Magnificent Historical Romance - Great Australian Setting	It is 1808. Bryony Wentworth has been transported to New South Wales after  being convicted of manslaughter. Pregnant during her journey, she gives  birth but her son dies after only a few months. Imprisoned in the  &quot;Female Factory&quot; the distraught Bryony is &quot;bought&quot; by  Hayden St. John as a wet nurse for his own infant son - his wife dying in  childbirth and his previous wet nurse's milk having dried up. Bryony is  grieving not only for the baby she lost, but for the young daughter she was  forced to leave behind in England.<br />Bryony naturally assumes she is not  only going to be a wet nurse but a victim of her master's sexual desires as  well. However Hayden St. John, although he desires Bryony, is too much of a  gentleman to act on those desires. He feels guilty for having these  feelings so soon after his beloved wife's death.<br />They travel to Hayden's  land, a few days' ride from the large town where Bryony becomes cook,  housekeeper, as well as wet nurse, staying in the room previous belonging  to Hayden's deceased wife, Laura.<br />The book is full of great secondary  characters including Gideon - the young Irishman whose wife and children he  longs to bring to be near him, Quincy the young boy who is wise beyond his  years, and Louisa the common-law wife of an adjacent landowner who has  buried four of her five children.<br />As I am writing this, I am struck by  how difficult it is to convey how truly wonderful this book is without  giving away too much of the story -- the characters were so real, the  setting so vividly described, the writing seamless, the sexual tension  almost palpable. But what can I say to convince those reading this to run  out and get this book ASAP??? Should I tell you it's going on my keeper  shelf immediately? Or should I tell you I was so sorry for it to end that  I've actually considered re-reading it right away? Or can I say that I hope  the next book might be a sequel (perhaps with Quincy as the hero)so I can  visit these characters/this setting again?<br />NIGHT IN EDEN is one of the  best historical romances I've read. Please, please, do yourself a favor and  put this on your TBB list - and don't put off reading it. As Catherine  Coulter is quoted on the stepback as saying, &quot;You won't be sorry.  Trust me on this.&quot;	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R3GNYJMESX8ABJ	0380796090	962133592	Watermelon	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A wonderful new writer	Actually, not new to some people, but new to me.  I was so  happy to  discover this author! She has such a wonderful way of words and a way of  taking a rather tragic situtation and making the reader laugh out loud.   Since reading WATERMELON I have been happy to locate Marian Keyes'  subsequent books - all in their British/Irish editions.  LAST CHANCE SALOON  was my favorite - I found it in London last fall, but unfortunately it is  not yet available in the states.  US readers will have to satisfy  themselves with RACHEL'S HOLIDAY (a spin off from Watermelon about one of  the sisters) and LUCY SULLIVAN IS GETTING married. If you like the humor of  American authors such as Jennifer Crusie or Trish Jensen then you should  certainly enjoy Marian Keyes.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R9D36MYGOY9UD	0451180542	166372074	Dreamseeker	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A compelling read - great suspense	Catherine Winslow has been plagued by vivid dreams throughout her  life--dreams of the glamorous heiress, Nicki, a fantasy which helped  Catherine cope with the tyrannical aunt who raised her.<br />Catherine is  finally able to leave the Charleston mansion which has become like a prison  to her when her career as a romance novelist takes off. She soon becomes  romantically involved with a local politician but breaks off their  relationship just before their wedding. It isn't long afterwards that  disturbing dreams of Nicki surface again.<br />Although at first somewhat  confusing, the readers soon becomes wrapped up in Nicki's life as well as  Catherine's as Nicki is stalked by a serial killer.<br />This is romantic  suspense at its very best, a compelling pageturner, especially enjoyed by  this reviewer who read it in on the Hawaiian island of Kauai, as part of  the book is set on the Big Island. <br />Full of long-dormant secrets,  gripping suspense, and tender romance--who could ask for anything more?	2000-09-04
US	53080622	RS2CQJ18GSDCP	0671035738	320382334	Hawke's Cove	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Timeless Love	From the pen of Susan Wilson (Beauty) comes a gem of a story that can't  fail to touch all who read it.<br />It's 1944 and Evangeline Worth is  summering at Hawke's Cove on the New England coast much to the dismay of  her husband who is serving with the allied forces in Europe. John Worth is  a city boy and can't understand Vangie's attachment to the rundown farm she  inherited from her grandmother. This has put a strain on their nine-year  marriage but Vangie had spent many summers in Hawke's Cove as she was  growing up. It reminds her of a more gentle time and would be a good time  for her to get over the recent loss of her baby as well as to spend some  time writing her poetry.<br />When a stranger suddenly appears in Hawke's  Cove, no one seems to realize he has anything to do with the missing  Hellcat pilot whose plane was gone down nearby. Vangie needs someone to  help her on the farm, it's suggested she hire the stranger who says his  name is Joe Green.<br />Throughout the summer Vangie and Joe forge an almost  too comfortable alliance - each with a secret they're reluctant to reveal.  When Vangie's receives word her husband is missing in action, Joe is of  great comfort to her.<br />But there is a second story here - that of Vangie  and John's youngest son, Charlie, a reporter who, in 1993 is assigned to  write a story about the Hellcat airplane which has recently been discovered  in the water off the little New England village of Hawke's Cove. The reader  is kept at the edge of their seat as 50-year-old secrets are about to be  revealed after Charlie meets Maggie Green - the daughter of Joe from 50  years previously.<br />Writing in a variety of styles - first person via  Vangie's diary entries, first person narrative in voices of several  different characters, as well as third person - Wilson successfully tells  the story from several points of view which works out very nicely for the  reader.<br />Wilson writes with compassion as she tells these storiesseparated by time and brought together by a common bond. Romantic and  tender, HAWKE'S COVE will appeal to a wide variety of readers but romance  readers should be advised that this is not a typical romance. Rather, it is  for the sophisticated reader who isn't as bound by the stringent guidelines  found in much of romantic fiction today. Readers will cry, be joyful and  surprised at this story which proves love is timeless.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R384OP2BJJ25G8	0380731983	304772349	When I Fall in Love	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	What a Wonderful Surprise!	I don't know just what it was that drove me to read this book as I haven't  read any of the author's previous ones (although I did see the move based  on her book, BEACHES).  I didn't know anything about the plot or characters  when I began and didn't know just what to expect.  The author hooked me  from the beginning and I was pleasantly surprised at the choice of love  interest she chose for Lily -- talk about your unconventional hero!  Since  reading this book over a year ago, I've been recommending it to everyone I  know - it's my pleasure to recommend to anyone viewing this review at  Amazon.com.  This book is a guaranteed &quot;feel good&quot; read.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R1FEYK0NG3AX2H	0380799375	601072635	Baby Love (The Kendrick-Coulter Series)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Another Keeper from Catherine Anderson!!!	Maggie is running and running scared. With her newborn infant in tow, she  jumps on a freight train in order not only to get away but to hide her  tracks. Naively, she believes this will be her ticket to a better life.  What she doesn't expect is to find the boxcar already inhabited by several  drunken transients. When two of them, traveling together, try to attack  Maggie, the third comes to her rescue.<br />Rafe Kendrick is running, too.  Running from his memories but can't escape them. After losing his wife and  children in an accident for which he blames himself, he left his home,  drank himself senseless, and has pretty much kept himself drunk for a  couple years. But when he sees Maggie's need, he decides to help.<br />Maggie  is very secretive about her personal life, not willing to divulge her last  name, her hometown, or details about how she received the bruises covering  much of her body. Rafe is afraid she's running from the law. Knowing she  needs to rest and a good meal, he accompanies her to a motel in a little  town in Idaho where he pawns his wedding ring to provide Maggie and her  infant son with food, clothing, and shelter. When Maggie becomes too ill to  care for her baby herself, Rafe knows that he has to stay sober in order to  help both of them.<br />But when Maggie becomes so ill she needs to be taken  to the hospital, secrets are revealed putting her life as well as that of  her infant son, in danger. Once again Rafe comes to her rescue. Of course  Rafe has a few secrets of his own, the most important being that he isn't  just your ordinary downtrodden transient.<br />How these two wounded souls are  able to heal one another is an inspiring story from one of romance  fiction's most talented authors. Rafe and Maggie are able to give one  another the happiness neither one ever expected to find. Catherine Anderson  hooks the reader from the very beginning and until its dramatic conclusion  she doesn't let go. BABY LOVE is another winner in a long list of keepers  from this talented author whose books consistently tug at the heartstrings  and pull at the emotions. Don't miss this one.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R3V6ZO73TI5CEN	0380815346	151594066	No Marriage of Convenience (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Terrific Story - Wonderful Author	Elizabeth Boyle has penned a terrific story with NO MARRIAGE OF  CONVENIENCE. Her compelling plot and interesting characters will have the  reader turning pages at a nearly frentic pace trying to find out if Mason  ever discovers the truth about the mysterious Mistress Fontaine.  Highly  recommended!	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R3F0WY59X8SG79	0671004158	188649298	Devlin's Light (Enright Family Series)	Books	5	51	52	N	Y	For Fans of Nora Roberts' Trilogies	Rarely do I decide to review a group of books instead of just one. And,  while I believe each one of these books can stand on its own, readers will  be so enthralled with the Enright family, they will want to read them all.  Much like the wonderful family series by Nora Roberts, these books are to  be savored as some of the best relationship novels of the 1990s.  <br />DEVLIN'S LIGHT set on Delaware Bay is the story of criminal prosecutor  India Devlin and the first Enright sibling, marine biologist, Nick. And  although there is more of a mystery in this story as India attempts to find  out who killed her brother, it's the relationship with Nick that's at the  forefront.<br />WONDERFUL YOU, set in Chester Co, PA is tells Zoey Enright's  story as she falls in love with Ben Pierce, a childhood friend. There are  some light moments in this story when Zoey, would rather eat take out than  cook herself, is required to prepare a few dishes in order to help  demonstrate cookware in her job on-the-air at a home shopping network.<br />In  MOON DANCE, Stewart tells the story of the youngest Enright, ballerina  Georgia. Set in the Maryland countryside, we find Georgia who wants one  certain barn as a dance studio, while her nemesis, Matt, has planned to use  it as a veterinary clinic. <br />The settings of these stories are all so  vividly described, it's hard to imagine they're not real places. Readers  will want to visit Devlin's Lighthouse, Zoey's Garden, The Bishop Inn, and  the farm at Pumpkin Hill.<br />A common thread running through all three books  is the matriarch of the family, Delia Enright, bestselling mystery  novelist, who loves her children but does interfere perhaps a little too  much, but always in a caring manner. Many readers will wish they had a  mother like Delia!!! Readers will also be happy to know that Delia gets a  love interest of her own in MOON DANCE. <br />Mariah Stewart's books, like  Nora Roberts' sibling sagas, are not about murder, espionage,or mystery  (although each book has a bit of intrigue as well) but are instead about  relationships - between a man and a woman, between a woman and her mother,  between sisters. I can't think of many writers who can do this better. In  all her books, strong secondary characters abound. She creates a world the  reader is reluctant to leave after the last page is turned. Thankfully,  readers can look forward to more of the Enrights in PRICELESS which will be  out in 1999. It can't be soon enough for this reviewer. Reading each book  has been like visiting an old friend.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R2VHJDA8WQBKAC	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Thought-provoking	Kathryn Lyons is content with her life. She has a fulfilling job, a happy  and talented teenage daughter, the home on the water she had always dreamed  about, and a secure marriage. Her whole world comes tumbling down around  her when she answers a knock on the door in the middle of the night. Robert  Hart, a representative of the pilot's union has brought the shocking news  that the plane her husband Jack is piloting has crashed into the sea off  the coast of Ireland.<br />At first Kathryn is barely able to cope with the  news. This can't be happening. Investigators start asking her very  unsettling questions about her marriage and her private life. Before long,  the media reports the crash is believed to have been caused by pilot error  -- then comes the more shocking news: they investigators have reason to  believe Jack committed suicide. Kathryn cannot, in her wildest dreams,  believe this. He had not seemed depressed, didn't have a drinking problem,  and had even asked their daughter Mattie to go with him to a Celtics game  when he returned.<br />As she goes through some of Jack's things, she finds  several confusing notes. Doing a bit of investigation herself (with some  help from Robert), Kathryn becomes suspicious -- just what was Jack doing  in London?<br />From the time Kathryn opens the door until the book is closed  after the last page is read, the reader cannot help but mesmerized.  Immensely readable, unsettling, compelling, and beautifully phrased, THE  PILOT'S WIFE is a book which will stay with the reader long after it's  finished. The Oprah Book Club selection for April 1999 is a book every wife  and mother should read. How well do you really know your husband?	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R1IXDA48ZQMCG8	1551665301	693713855	Book Club	Books	5	22	23	N	N	FOR FANS OF PATRICIA GAFFNEY'S SAVING GRACES	While five women living in the same community are bonded together by their  membership in the same book discussion group, they are also divided by  their different personalities and secrets they know about one  another.<br />Eve is a recent widow who, even though was having some marital  difficulties, has now glorified the marriage, even putting her late husband  up on a pedestal although in reality he was not as good a husband as she  seems to remember. A college graduate, she has let her degree go by the  wayside while has found fulfillment in her family and volunteering for  literacy.<br />Annie, a gifted lawyer, has seen it all and done it all. Rising  above a difficult childhood, she has been content with her life but now her  biological time clock is ticking down and she finds that she would really  love to have a baby. Her husband has been wishing for this for a long time  and is thrilled with her announcement.<br />Doris has been the perfect wife  and mother, neglecting herself in the process. Now her children are older  and don't need her as much, she is dealing with suspicions of her husband's  infidelity and of her own mortality. <br />Midge has been alone for years. A  gifted artist she's been happy with the situation -- up until now. When her  vibrant mother moves in for an extended visit, Midge resents the  intrusion.<br />Gabriella and her family are happy but when her husband is  laid off work, they struggle with even everyday existence.<br />References to  books the group has chosen to read adds to the appeal of this story as each  woman grows to realize what is really important in her life.<br />Mary Alice  Monroe has written a beautiful story of friendship. Readers get to know  some of the book group members more than others (Annie and Eve are best  known and to a lesser degree Doris, while Gabriella and Midge are really  merely secondary characters). Many readers will be able to identify one or  another of these women as they struggle with life-changing events in their  lives. While the ending seems a bit rushed, the overall story is very  satisfying and is likely to keep readers up late at night finishing as it  did this reviewer. Readers will look forward to more novels from this  talented writer.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R3O2QELFFQIEQF	0671004166	792921692	Wonderful You	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Recommended for Readers of Nora Roberts' Trilogies	Rarely do I decide to review a group of books instead of just one. And,  while I believe each one of these books can stand on its own, readers will  be so enthralled with the Enright family, they will want to read them all.  Much like the wonderful family series by Nora Roberts, these books are to  be savored as some of the best relationship novels of the 1990s.  <br />DEVLIN'S LIGHT set on Delaware Bay is the story of criminal prosecutor  India Devlin and the first Enright sibling, marine biologist, Nick. And  although there is more of a mystery in this story as India attempts to find  out who killed her brother, it's the relationship with Nick that's at the  forefront.<br />WONDERFUL YOU, set in Chester Co, PA is tells Zoey Enright's  story as she falls in love with Ben Pierce, a childhood friend. There are  some light moments in this story when Zoey, would rather eat take out than  cook herself, is required to prepare a few dishes in order to help  demonstrate cookware in her job on-the-air at a home shopping network.<br />In  MOON DANCE, Stewart tells the story of the youngest Enright, ballerina  Georgia. Set in the Maryland countryside, we find Georgia who wants one  certain barn as a dance studio, while her nemesis, Matt, has planned to use  it as a veterinary clinic. <br />The settings of these stories are all so  vividly described, it's hard to imagine they're not real places. Readers  will want to visit Devlin's Lighthouse, Zoey's Garden, The Bishop Inn, and  the farm at Pumpkin Hill.<br />A common thread running through all three books  is the matriarch of the family, Delia Enright, bestselling mystery  novelist, who loves her children but does interfere perhaps a little too  much, but always in a caring manner. Many readers will wish they had a  mother like Delia!!! Readers will also be happy to know that Delia gets a  love interest of her own in MOON DANCE. <br />Mariah Stewart's books, like  Nora Roberts' sibling sagas, are not about murder, espionage,or mystery  (although each book has a bit of intrigue as well) but are instead about  relationships - between a man and a woman, between a woman and her mother,  between sisters. I can't think of many writers who can do this better. In  all her books, strong secondary characters abound. She creates a world the  reader is reluctant to leave after the last page is turned. Thankfully,  readers can look forward to more of the Enrights in PRICELESS which will be  out in 1999. It can't be soon enough for this reviewer. Reading each book  has been like visiting an old friend.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R2Z1WBJI1USRKA	0963942948	102914608	The Ultimate Kauai Guidebook	Books	5	2	3	N	N	ABSOLUTELY INDISPENSIBLE - THE ONLY KAUAI GUIDEBOOK YOU NEED	After spending 11 weeks in Kauai in less than four years, I can honestly  say this is the one guidebook you will need - my original copy is falling  apart at the seams from so much use.  Details of how to get to different  beaches, restaurant recommendations, recreational guides, and very detailed  maps are absolutely indispensible.  Had it not been for this book I  wouldn't have ever known about the Grove Farm Museum which I have now  visited twice - a highlight each time. I would have also not known about  the condos we have stayed at twice -- oceanfront at $75/night! The only  caveat is that it needs some updating, but the authors do update their web  site with changes from what is in the book.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R2D9LPZHOAG9F3	0515127833	763909406	River's End	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of Nora's Best	Julie McBride and Sam Tanner were Hollywood's sweethearts. Married several  years and with several Oscar nominations between them, they've recently  become fodder for the gossip columns with Sam's reported drug use and  rumors of Julie's infidelity.<br />When Julie is found slashed to death in  their palatial home, Sam is taken into custody and charged with her murder.  He's eventually convicted and sent to prison - the first 15 years without  parole. <br />Sam and Julie's four-year-old daughter, Olivia, was in the house  the night her mother was murdered. Hearing screams, she tried to find her  mother and saw the signs of a struggle and her father bending over her  mother's bloody body. Frightened, she fled and hid where she was later  found by a policeman, Frank Brady. Brady tenderly cared for Olivia even as  he reluctantly questioned her about what she saw.<br />Although her mother's  twin sister, Jamie, and her husband, David, would have loved to have Olivia  live with them, it was decided she should go to live with her grandparents  who run River's End, a lodge and campground on Washington state's Olympic  Peninsula far from the paparazzi and media circus. Livvy thrives in the  safe environment provided by her loving grandparents. Loving nature, she  goes to college majoring in resource science and returns to River's End to  open a naturalist center.<br />Twenty years after the murder, Sam Tanner's  parole has continued to be denied thanks in large large part to the  testimony of Frank Brady and Olivia's aunt, Jamie. Stricken with a terminal  illness and anticipating release, Sam contacts bestselling true-crime  author Noah Brady to finally tell his side of the story. Noah just happens  to be the son of Frank and has long been interested in the case; and,  particularly in Livvy, who he has had contact with several times in the  past 20 years. Noah knows he will have to get all sides of the story, not  just Sam's which will mean seeing Livvy again.<br />When Noah sees Livvy, the  attraction is still there but little does he know that in his quest to tell  her father's story, her life will be in danger for there is one person who  knows the truth of what happened that night 20 years before.<br />RIVER'S END  is Nora Roberts at her very best -- luscious romance, gripping suspense,  and superb storytelling combine for a magnificent and exciting novel.  Reading just doesn't get much better than this	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R1C111EH67XP5Q	0312973071	837519919	Allie's Moon	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Wonderful Americana Romance!	Jefferson Hicks, once the Sheriff of the small town of Decker Prairie,  Oregon, is now merely a shadow of his former self. With only sketchy  memories of his former life and having lost everything he once loved, he's  become gaunt and unkempt as he hides in a haze of whiskey and is reduced to  stealing eggs for food and sleeping in alleyways. So, when Decker Prairie's  current sheriff, Jeff's old friend, Will Mason, proposes Jeff work off a  sentence for pilfering by doing some work on the farm owned by the  &quot;crazy&quot; Ford sisters, he doesn't have much of a choice but to  comply.<br />When Jeff arrives at the dilapidated Ford farm he expects to find  the Ford sisters as run-down and old as their farm, so he is taken aback  when he finds the sisters are actually the beautiful Althea who appears to  be in her late 20s and her younger, child-like sister, Olivia, who is prone  to seizures on certain occasions - which it seems she's able to control and  she uses them each time a man gets close to her sister.<br />Fastidious and  proper, Althea is anxious for the work to be done on her farm - her roof  leaks, the yard is overgrown with weeds, and she needs her field plowed and  planted. One of her first missions after seeing the former sheriff in such  miserable condition, is to clean him up a bit with a bath, shave, haircut,  and clean clothes. Each appears uncomfortable in one another's presence - a  taste of the sexual tension brewing between these two lost and lonely  souls.<br />Since Jeff has no permanent home, he takes up residence in a  lean-to adjacent to the Ford barn which has been unused for years, due in  part to Althea's memory of a tragedy occurring there over a decade  previously - one which changed her life forever and has haunted her ever  since. It is only when Jeff is able to help Allie face the demons of her  past that he's able to come to terms with his own.<br />But there is something  nefarious about as well as a ne'er-do-well with a mean streak plots revenge  on both Jeff and Althea, resulting in tragic consequences. <br />ALLIE'S MOON  is a wonderful Americana romance, reminiscent of the historicals of such  reader favorites as LaVyrle Spencer, Dorothy Garlock and Rosanne Bittner.  Love blossoms as Althea reminds Jeff of everything good in the world,  dimming his memories of everything bad and making him feel not only good  about himself but taking away the guilt that has been plaguing him and is  the reason for his withdrawal from society.<br />Alexis Harrington, who has  been absent far too long while she has been in between publishers, has  returned with this beautiful story of two lost souls finding one another.  This is a terrific read, not to be missed. Welcome back, Alexis!!!	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R2YY5JUGRCZUPL	034543739X	915338201	Until the Real Thing Comes Along (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	A usually adore Elizabeth Berg's books - her TALK BEFORE SLEEP and RANGE  OF MOTION are on my keeper shelf - so it was with great anticipation that I  read UNTIL THE REAL THING COMES ALONG. I found it contrived and in a word -  disappointing.  That said, I haven't given up on Berg -- quite the contrary  -- am looking foward to reading OPEN HOUSE and some of her earlier novels.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R19522YLPTWSJ0	0671026240	441692813	Moon Dance	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	For Fans of Nora Roberts' Trilogies	Rarely do I decide to review a group of books instead of just one. And,  while I believe each one of these books can stand on its own, readers will  be so enthralled with the Enright family, they will want to read them all.  Much like the wonderful family series by Nora Roberts, these books are to  be savored as some of the best relationship novels of the 1990s.  <br />DEVLIN'S LIGHT set on Delaware Bay is the story of criminal prosecutor  India Devlin and the first Enright sibling, marine biologist, Nick. And  although there is more of a mystery in this story as India attempts to find  out who killed her brother, it's the relationship with Nick that's at the  forefront.<br />WONDERFUL YOU, set in Chester Co, PA is tells Zoey Enright's  story as she falls in love with Ben Pierce, a childhood friend. There are  some light moments in this story when Zoey, would rather eat take out than  cook herself, is required to prepare a few dishes in order to help  demonstrate cookware in her job on-the-air at a home shopping network.<br />In  MOON DANCE, Stewart tells the story of the youngest Enright, ballerina  Georgia. Set in the Maryland countryside, we find Georgia who wants one  certain barn as a dance studio, while her nemesis, Matt, has planned to use  it as a veterinary clinic. <br />The settings of these stories are all so  vividly described, it's hard to imagine they're not real places. Readers  will want to visit Devlin's Lighthouse, Zoey's Garden, The Bishop Inn, and  the farm at Pumpkin Hill.<br />A common thread running through all three books  is the matriarch of the family, Delia Enright, bestselling mystery  novelist, who loves her children but does interfere perhaps a little too  much, but always in a caring manner. Many readers will wish they had a  mother like Delia!!! Readers will also be happy to know that Delia gets a  love interest of her own in MOON DANCE. <br />Mariah Stewart's books, like  Nora Roberts' sibling sagas, are not about murder, espionage,or mystery  (although each book has a bit of intrigue as well) but are instead about  relationships - between a man and a woman, between a woman and her mother,  between sisters. I can't think of many writers who can do this better. In  all her books, strong secondary characters abound. She creates a world the  reader is reluctant to leave after the last page is turned. Thankfully,  readers can look forward to more of the Enrights in PRICELESS which will be  out in 1999. It can't be soon enough for this reviewer. Reading each book  has been like visiting an old friend.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R17U1PMU667GHP	0061093963	986982861	Reflection	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A BEAUTIFUL LOVE STORY	I will preface this review by first saying this book has an aspect which  sometimes bothers romance readers, but I will also say this book will go in  my top five of all-time favorite reads. If you are adamantly opposed to  infidelity in the novels you read, in any way, shape or form, you might  want to skip REFLECTION. However, if you're like me and can forgive  infidelity in certain circumstances read on. And remember, this book is  marketed as &quot;Fiction&quot; rather than &quot;Romance&quot; probably  more because of its broad range but also because of the sensitive issues.  However if the concepts of lost loves, putting the past behind,  forgiveness, and learning to live again appeal to you, run -- don't walk --  to find this fabulous book ASAP.<br />Schoolteacher Rachel Huber has returned  to her hometown of Reflection, Pennsylvania, deep in Amish country, to care  for her ailing grandmother. She had fled the area 21 years earlier,  immediately after being involved in a horrible tragedy. Her return is  bittersweet as she is not exactly made to feel welcome by many of the town  members who blame her for the terrible event occurring over two decades  earlier. However there is at least one very big exception - her childhood  friend, Michael Stoltz. Michael, Rachel, and Luke Pierce had been  inseparable in childhood. It was always known that Luke and Rachel would  marry but shortly afterwards, Luke was drafted and sent to service in  Vietnam. Michael, a conscientious objector, and Rachel join the Peace Corps  and are sent to Rwanda. Michael and Rachel have always shared a deep  friendship and love but have never acted on their romantic feelings.  Michael eventually marries another woman from their town, Katy, who he  doesn't love but needs to forget Rachel.<br />Michael lost touch with the  widowed Rachel after she fled Reflection. Her family would not reveal her  whereabouts. Soon he, with Katy's urging, goes to school and becomes a  Mennonite minister. When Rachel arrives back in town, Michael is a much  loved part of the community while Katy is in Russia working as a medical  missionary as part of a trial separation between the two. It takes only one  meeting between Michael and Rachel to find they still have feelings for  each other. But still, both are strong and although they renew their  friendship, that's as far as it goes.<br />Meanwhile, Rachel's octogenarian  grandmother, Helen, is recovering from the injuries she suffered when she  was struck by lightning while tending her garden. The widow of famed  classical composer/pianist who even is the subject of a statue in the town,  Peter Huber, Helen has several secrets of her own.<br />Diane Chamberlain  skillfully layers the many facets of this spectacular novel. Readers soon  have a myriad of questions which will be answered as the story progresses  including what is Helen hiding in the boxes in the attic? What secrets are  Rachel's former student Lily and former school principal Jacob Holt hiding?  Why did Rachel's parents keep her from her grandparents for many years? And  what is Marielle Hostetter's relationship to grandfather Huber? It is a  testament to the talent of the author that she is able to tie things up so  neatly at the end.<br />For a compelling read, one readers will be hesitant to  put down once started, please give REFLECTION a try. Richly textured and  beautifully written, it is truly a very special story and a real keeper.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	RDBZOXZ0DNGDX	0380704161	409225574	Through a Glass Darkly	Books	5	8	9	N	N	READING RARELY GETS BETTER THAN THIS!	Yes, Yes, Yes!  THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY is so good. I can't believe it took me nearly ten years to get to this book. I can honestly say I haven't been  this enthralled with a book since I read THE PROUD BREED (by Celeste  DeBlasis) approximately three years ago. All 750+ pages have been  absolutely compelling reading. <br />It takes place in London and Paris in the  early 1700s. 15 year-old Barbara Ackerly is the granddaughter of the Duke  and Duchess of Tamworth and has been raised in proper society standards.  Her mother is attempting to arrange a marriage between her and an old  family friend, Roger Montgeoffrey, Lord Devane. Roger is 42-years-old and  Barbara has had a crush on him since she was about 10. Barbara's mother,  Diana, a beautiful but nasty woman who likes to sleep around and is  attempting to arrange the marriage in order to help pay off her enormous  debts. Roger is interested in Barbara because by marrying her he will get  the deed to some property he wants to develop. (Barbara's mother is deeply  in debt due to her estranged husband's drinking and gambling). Barbara is  excited at the prospect of marrying Roger. She just knows she can make him  love her. However, Barbara's aunt has other ideas. She wants the property  for her son, Tony, who is the latest Duke of Tamworth and does everything  in her power so that the Barbara/Roger wedding does not become a reality.  The story goes on from there. To tell much more would rob the reader of the  pleasure of discovering all its drama for themselves. The characters are so  real that I feel I know them. This is more of a historical novel than a  romance. Sex scenes are not detailed.<br />I have to give this a 5*****  rating. It goes on my keeper shelf and on my list of favorite books of all  time.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R1BMRYS42KZ8WN	1551664844	746193661	Breaking The Silence (Love Inspired)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	DIANE CHAMBERLAIN RULES!!!	The talented Diane Chamberlain, whose KEEPER OF THE LIGHT was one of the  most innovative romances of the 90s, doesn't disappoint with BREAKING THE  SILENCE. Rich and multi-layered, this is a novel of deep emotion. Delving  into the world of human experimentation in a psychiatric hospital through  Sarah's eyes, the book is at once disturbing and at the same time a  beautiful testament to true love. The reader gets a bonus with BREAKING THE  SILENCE which is essentially two books in one -- the story of Sarah's life  from the 1930s to the late 1950s and then the budding relationship between  Laura and Dylan. Chamberlain has woven the two together is such a  spectacular way with twists and turns keeping the reader up into the wee  hours of the night. This is an exceptional read and a keeper in every sense  of the word	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R2CMWZJKO6LCJ5	0380787474	833444287	Annie's Hero	Books	4	47	47	N	N	THE WONDER OF A DISNEY FAIRYTALE	Annie and Richard Nelson have just returned from their honeymoon which  they spent at Mystic Lake--the same lake where they met as children when  their parents had a cabin there. Richard reluctantly kisses his wife  goodbye and goes to work--driving a fuel truck. It's a stormy day and while  on a bridge he sees a busload full of children out of control coming right  for him. He makes the decision to turn his wheels towards the  guardrail--saving the children but resulting in a fiery crash down a  hillside sending Richard into unconsciousness.<br />When Richard awakes, he is  lying in a meadow and the sun is shining. He wonders where the storm is and  why he isn't hurt. A mystical being who introduces himself as Sir George  tells Richard that he is a White Knight and that Richard is needed to  become his best White Knight of all. Sir George erases all memory of  Richard's mortal life and gives him the name of Ren and changes his  appearance. He tells Ren it is going to be up to him to return to earth to  save the life of an unborn child of Annie Nelson. This baby is going to  grow up to save the world and there are dark and deadly evil forces at work  whose job it is to prevent the child from being born.<br />Ren returns to  earth and shocks Annie. To her, he looks just like her deceased husband.  She doesn't understand why no one else recognizes him. Then Annie is  perplexed by a young student in her 10th grade English class, Sara. Why  doesn't she show up as registered at the school? Annie's friends fear she  is losing her mind as she insists the mysterious dark-haird, dark-eyed Ren  is really her blond-haired, blue-eyed Richard.<br />Sharing elements of both  THE STAND by Stephen King and the movie &quot;The Terminator,&quot; with  all the magic and wonder of a Disney fairytale, Maggie Shayne weaves a  mesmerizing tale of true love that is sure to enchant readers everywhere.  The climactic scene is riveting with the battle between the forces of good  and evil. Theonly things keeping me from giving it five stars instead of  four was the book's predictability and an explanation towards the end of  the book which was a bit unbelievable.	2000-09-04
US	53080622	R1ANB61Y6IUZRA	0807281751	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	What great fun for all ages!	OK. I admit to being a little behind the times.  Although I had purchased all the Harry Potter books for my 10-year-old grandson, I hadn't had the  chance to read them.  Since my 80-year-old Mom wanted to read the books  too, we decided to listen to the unabridged version during a recent trip to  the Dakotas.  We were both mesmerized!  Jim Dale is a terrific narrator for  the tapes, doing the different characters' voices so well you could hardly  believe it was the same person doing all of them!  From the Scottish accent  of Mrs. McGonnigle to the Irish accent of the Centaurs to the Cockney  accent of one major characters, all are so vivid!  What a magical story!  Mom and I both remarked several times on what an amazing imagination J.K.  Rowling possesses to dream up such a tale.  We also remarked on how we  understood why Harry Potter has captured the attention and imagination of  so many youngsters of every age.  I can't recommend this one highly enough!	2000-08-30
US	53080622	RCDZJAVRALI6Z	0671034073	421300008	Irish Fire	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fabulous!	Although the books of Jeanette Baker has been recommended to me by several  people, and I have all her books, it wasn't until IRISH FIRE that I  actually read one.  Boy was I impressed!  Her details of Irish life in  general and horses and horse racing in particular, are absolutely  outstanding!  What a talented writer! I'm now off the pull her other books  out of my teetering TBR pile to see for myself how her previous books  compare.  Since she has just won RWA's Rita award for best paranormal of  1999, I'm guessing I have some more treasures in store for me.  If they  others are anything like IRISH FIRE, they will keep me up reading into the  wee hours of the morning as well.  Kudos to Ms. Baker for a fabulous read!  This one's highly recommended.	2000-08-30
US	53080622	RX8RM2UHQ4JJT	0671776126	362447474	Plain Truth	Books	4	50	55	N	N	An interesting story from a great writer	I first became a fan of Jodi Piccoult after reading her amazing story, PICTURE PERFECT.  With PLAIN TRUTH she joins the ranks of those on my  &quot;automatic buy&quot; list.  She is a talented, versatile writer and I  hope to read her other books soon.  PLAIN TRUTH is set in one of my  favorite places, Pennsylvania's Lancaster county. Ms. Piccoult has detailed  Amish life with great accuracy - something not all authors do this well,  either depicting Amish stereotypes or giving the reader so much information  it's like reading a textbook.  The Amish characters are realistically  portrayed, evoking both sympathy and envy for their way of life.  PLAIN  TRUTH has mystery, a wonderful romance between big-city attorney Ellie who  moves in with the Fisher family to keep young Katie from having to go to  jail and the former college beau who is now a psychiatrist hired to help  her understand 18-year-old Amish woman, Katie Fisher, accused of giving  birth to a baby and then murdering it.  Complete with a surprise ending,  this book is a compelling read which readers will find difficult to put  down once started.  Another winner from Jodi Piccoult!	2000-08-30
US	53080622	R2CQSWSA9OWCIE	0505523957	176741781	In the Shadow of the Moon (Timeswept Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fans of  Diana Gabaldon rejoice!!!	Readers who are fans of the Outlander series by Diana Gabaldon, should  love this book by new author Karen White.  A time-travel set in present day  and Civil War era Georgia, it's written in first person, with a dose of  history, and in an era where there were brothers fighting brothers (much  like the Jacobite rebellion which was at the forefront of Gabaldon's series  much of which is set in Scotland).  Strong writing, compelling plot, all  combine in this emotional story.  This is a terrific book from beginning to  end!  Very highly recommended.	2000-08-07
US	53080622	R2YZ9RDIFK8U8Y	0345385659	71037778	My Love Affair with England: A Traveler's Memoir	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Almost as good as being there	Since I won't be able to go to England this year, this book nearly made up for it and I became an armchair traveler instead.  The author writes as if she is talking to her best friend about her trips - there were several  times when I wanted to chime in or ask her more questions!   I am looking  forward to reading the other two books she has written about England and  would love to be a part of a tour group she leads!	2000-08-01
US	53080622	R2BS7QOCAKS84U	0505523779	905828360	Against His Will	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Fun Read!	This book is a contemporary comedy/drama which is reminiscent of the books of Jennifer Crusie.   Jake Donnelly's beloved aunt has died and instead of the cabin in PA that he wanted, she has left him her bulldog, Muffin.  With  Muffin comes control of her $20 million estate -- but there are  stipulations, one being he has to spend two weeks with Muffin at a doggy  spa.  The FBI agent had other ideas as to how to spend his summer vacation  but knows this is the way he will eventually obtain what he wants.   He  doesn't expect to fall in love with the owner of the doggy spa,LeAnne, an  animal psychologist.  In fact, he is skeptical at first wondering how in  the world this elaborate place was paid for.  There is action, too, when  his partner at the FBI decides that a trial witness whose life they are  trying to protect would be well-hidden at the spa with the Jake.   I loved  this story and would highly recommend it to readers who like a bit of drama  with witty repartee and lots of sexual tension.	2000-07-25
US	53080622	RU8IQQ0A9USMP	0515127221	241381231	Sullivan's Island (Lowcountry Tales)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An oustanding new voice!	Dorothea Benton Frank is a outstanding new voice for women's fiction, acombination of the southern voice of Deborah Smith, the mainstream women fiction voice of Patricia Gaffney, and the humor of Jennifer Crusie.   Although I have never visited Sullivan's island, the author's vivid  descriptions placed me firmly in the Lowcountry.  I am looking forward to  the author's next book, which appears to be a sequel. It can't be published  soon enough for me!	2000-07-15
US	53080622	R2YBJ7WROGFD39	0312874510	86825886	Spotlight	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the Best Books of the Year!	Carole Bellacera has done it again!  She has followed her outstanding debut novel, BORDER CROSSINGS with a book that's as good, if not better.  Wonderfully romantic and suspenseful, SPOTLIGHT is the story of American  Fonda Blayne, a writer/photographer for an American rock magazine,  Spotlight.  She has been assigned to do a book on charismatic Irish rock  star Devin O'Keefe who, despite growing up in Northern Ireland advocates  peace instead of violence to deal with &quot;The Troubles.&quot;  However a  woman from Devin's last is using him, without his knowledge, to further her  cause which includes bombings and other violent acts.<br />As Devin and  Fonda's relationship escalates from a professional to a personal level, can  Devin tell Fonda the truth about this woman from his past and still hold on  to her love?<br />This is an outstanding book from its haunting prologue to  its exciting conclusion.  I absolutely could NOT put it down and was up  until 3AM finishing it.  I highly recommend this book as one of the best  books of the year.	2000-07-04
US	53080622	R1PQNEX5OY0MO6	0800757270	267073964	Woman of Grace (Brides of Culdee Creek, Book 2)	Books	5	59	59	N	N	Awesome	I didn't think Morgan could top DAUGHTER OF JOY but she's certainly done it with WOMAN OF GRACE. This story picks up where DAUGHTER OF JOY left off and is the story of the ex-prostitute, Hannah who Abby rescued from the  brothel.  Hannah and her baby have found a home at Culdee Creek and Hannah  has been assisting Devin MacKay's wife.  There are a lot of surprises in  this story and to tell too much would rob the reader of much of the  pleasure if too much is told.  Suffice to say it's another powerful read  from master storyteller Kathleen Morgan.	2000-06-27
US	53080622	R1LU4WD09RGM44	0385335121	870989999	Tara Road: Oprah Selection #26	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A wonderful story	TARA ROAD is the story of Ria Lynch and her charismatic husband, Danny.  Ria and Danny live in a large home they've lovingly refurbished in a prestigious Dublin neighborhood on Tara Road with their two children.  Ria  thinks she's happily married and is content in her life - right up until  the day Danny announces he's leaving her for another woman.  When a woman  from America, Marilyn Vine, calls wanting to exchange houses for the summer  with Ria, Ria decides this is a unique opportunity and flies to New England  with her two children.   Marilyn has as much time adjusting to life in  Dublin as Ria does to life in America. Marilyn had always been rather  reserved and is stunned at the openness of Ria's friends and neighbors.   When they both discover the other is withholding a secret - things really  get interesting.   What both women discover about themselves via this  exchange of homes changes their lives forever.  I loved this book and think  I would have enjoyed it even if I'd read it not knowing anything about  Ireland.  Being in Ireland when I read it just added to my enjoyment.  I  loved Ria's character and even liked her philandering husband, Danny.  The  wide variety of personalities of Ria's friends and neighbors really makes  the book interesting.  Since reading TARA ROAD I've acquired most of  Binchy's backlist in their British versions and was stunned when in May she  announced her retirement. Her next book, SCARLET FEATHER, out in Britain in  August, will be her last.   At least she has left us plenty of books to  read and re-read.	2000-06-26
US	53080622	R1HL1GCJZYNT2V	0821766473	992311742	Reilly's Law (Irish Blessing)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An impressive debut!	REILLY'S LAW is an exciting story from beginning to end.  The story of solicitor/boat captain Bryan Reilly and the young woman he meets when she literally flings herself into his arms is a joy to read.  Bryan Reilly is  traveling to England to secure financing for his family's fledgling ship  yard while Emilynne Wellesley needs to flee Ireland and the man bent on  obtaining custody of her young niece and nephew.  Emilynne doesn't trust  Thaddeus Whyte and with good reason.  All he cares about is gaining control  of the estate of Emilynne's recently deceased brother and sister-in-law --  he could care less about the children.  This story was quite a pleasant  surprise.  Rarely does one find a first-time author with such maturity.   This is the first of a trilogy and I can hardly wait for the next two  stories!	2000-06-25
US	53080622	R1RV6LTHQDN3XR	1576734064	889127013	The Decision (The Amish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Conclusion to an Oustanding Series!	In the conclusion to the series, THE DECISION, Cara's recently-vacated rooms are rented by Rose Martin, a young RN/EMT who has been the home health nurse for the recently injured Mary Zook. Rose has just seen her  patient killed in a car bombing and it soon becomes evident that someone  wants Rose dead as well.   Several years previously Rose had saved Jake  Zook's life in the accident in which he was paralyzed.  She becomes Jake's  friend but doesn't tell him she is the one who sat with him until the  paramedics arrived.  Jake thinks himself of not worthy of the love of his  kind woman and resists any effort at a relationship.  He feels particularly  helpless when he's unable to protect Rose from whoever is stalking her.   But Rose is harboring guilt of her own - she can't forgive herself for  causing the death of her father and sister many years previously.  Jake,  who has left his Amish roots is not a believer at all, while Rose cannot  wholly give her heart until she learns to forgive herself.  Two subplots  add depth to this story  -- the first of an Amish teenager who has moved in  with her grandparents after becoming pregnant and now lives there with her  infant son who is very ill with heart problems.  The second subplot deals  with Esther, a young woman who has moved in with the Zook family to help  out while Mary Zook recovers from injuries sustained in fall, and the  Zook's son Elam - who is pining away for a woman he cannot have and is  blind to the lovely Esther who loves him.<br />For readers who like those  wounded heroes, there isn't a better one than Jake Zook.  What a wonderful  couple Jake and Rose make - but will his belief that he is not worthy keep  them from the happiness they deserve?  <br />This is one series I hated to see  end - even after reading them one after another.  I will definitely be on  the look out for other books by this talented author.	2000-06-23
US	53080622	R2XFWUGZ8P2RYS	1576732959	315424106	The Document (The Amish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Second in an Outstanding Series	In THE DOCUMENT, romance writer Cara Bentley has just discovered her recently-deceased grandfather's adoption papers and decides to search for his biological family - a search which brings her to Lancaster Co., PA  where she rents the rooms recently vacated by Kristie Matthews.  The  attorney she employs to assist her in her search?  Kristie's ex-boyfriend  Todd.  It's soon apparent Cara and Todd are much more suited than Kristie  and Todd were.  But there's someone who doesn't want Cara to find her  grandfather's family.<br />The author gives insights into Amish culture  including several traditions which are hard for the English (anyone not  Amish) to understand.   THE DOCUMENT is doubly enjoyable as its  romance-writer heroine talks about the respectability of romance and even  mentions having more difficulty chosing what books to take on a trip than  what clothes to pack, something many romance readers can certainly identify  with!  THE DOCUMENT also will appeal to readers who share an interest in  family history and/or adoption search.  <br />This is an outstanding series  with a wide appeal.  Thank  you, Ms. Roper!	2000-06-23
US	53080622	R1GUVDEM1MXDWJ	1576732231	67151500	The Key (The Amish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The First Book in an Outstanding Series	In THE KEY, artist and schoolteacher Kristie Matthews yearns for a simpler life.  The day she moves into her new apartment, she sustains a dog bite necessitating a trip to the emergency room.  Jon Clarke Griffin, who is at  the farm to visit his friend, Jake, takes her to the hospital.  While she  is in the Emergency Room, a stranger hands her a key telling her to keep it  for him but to tell no one she has it.   She ends up befriending the  elderly stranger as he is hospitalized recovering from a heart attack.  She  has no idea she is putting herself in danger as well.   Meanwhile Kristie  breaks off the relationship with her lawyer boyfriend, Todd Reasoner and  soon thereafter begins seeing Clarke Griffin.   Soon a series of peculiar  events including a break-ins, make Kristie wonder what she has gotten  herself into.   <br />The three books in this series, set on the Zook's Amish  farm, each have an element of suspense in addition to the romance.  Each  story is told in first-person from the heroine's point of view. Gayle Roper  is a master at storytelling! I also heartily recommend THE DOCUMENT and THE  DECISION as well as THE KEY - it's been a long time since I read all three  books in a series back-to-back, but I really couldn't put these down.	2000-06-23
US	53080622	R16ZTZLCD60Z4D	0800757181	428813330	Daughter of Joy (Brides of Culdee Creek)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Powerful Read, I couldn't put it down	Set in 1890s Colorado, this is the first book in the Brides of Culdee Creek series.  Abigail (Abby) Stanton has lost nearly everything important to her firt her husband and now more recently, her five-year-old son.  Deciding she needs a place away from those memories she takes a job as a  housekeeper for obstinate rancher Conor MacKay and as schoolteacher for his  equally-as-difficult daughter, Beth.  It's a good thing Abby hasn't lost  her faith as she will need every ounce of it to deal with these two!  I  absolutely could not put this book down and can hardly wait to read book 2.  Morgan is a gifted writer.	2000-06-19
US	53080622	R2CB82AR3X6ZWX	0312868588	375756038	Border Crossings	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	If you only read one book this year, make it this one	Readers looking for a fabulous read, something different, need look no further than BORDER CROSSINGS by first-time author Carole Bellacera (contemporary set in 1991-1994) This book was recommended to me about a  year ago and although I bought it in hardcover, it's been on my TBR pile.   I'm sorry it took me so long to read it.  In a nutshell, an American woman  (Kathy) living in Dublin marries a man (Pearse) who was one of her  professors at Trinity College.  When his brother, active in the IRA, is  killed in Northern Ireland, it is up to Pearse to take his place.  The book  deals then with The Troubles and with its affect on Kathy and Pearse's  marriage.   This is NOT a light read.  But it is very real and, IMHO, an  accurate view of the struggles between the Catholics and the Protestants.   I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Suffice to say it immediately  takes its place in my Top 10 Reads of all time. Oprah should chose this  book, a good book for discussion by any readers group.  I am now anxiously  waiting her next book, SPOTLIGHT. Thank you Ms. Bellacera for this  enlightening, wonderful read. A beautiful story.	2000-06-15
US	53080622	R1LIGS43GDMI1H	0060193751	3230845	Circle of Three: A Novel	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Very Worthwhile Read	Ah - a new Patricia Gaffney book -- reading rarely gets better than a work from this talented author. The follow-up to her much-acclaimed THE SAVING GRACES, CIRCLE OF THREE is really more of a romance than THE SAVING GRACES  in that the main character, a recent widow, ends up seeing her old high  school sweetheart and things really heat up.   I think the main theme of  the story is intended to be the relationships between three generations of  women in a family, but this middle character is so much stronger than the  other two that her story really is at the forefront of the book making the  other two (her mother and daughter) more like subplots.  The story is told  in first person from the POV of each of the three main characters and I  love the way Gaffney seems so easily able to alternate between the three  and give them their own unique voice. I can only give it 4 stars because it  really isn't as powerful as THE SAVING GRACES, but nevertheless a very  worthwhile read and worth paying the hardcover price.	2000-06-09
US	53080622	R2Y59PXLBSGEGB	1576736113	25620544	Bookends	Books	5	12	12	N	N	What a terrific read!	I just finished a wonderful book by Liz Curtis Higgs.I was drawn to this  book because 1) I had read her previous novel MIXED SIGNALS and loved it  (she has also written several nonfiction inspirationals) and 2) It's one of  the rare books set in a Moravian community (this time  ontemporary Lititz,  PA) as I had a family of Moravian ancestors.   This book was terrific.  It  dealed with a young woman,  Emilie, who has a Ph.D. in anthropology and has  returned to her hometown on hiatus from teaching in NC to write the history  of her hometown Moravian church for its 250th anniversary celebration. But  she has an ulterior motive as well -- one that will give her accolades from  her collegues and help her recover from hurt pride.  While there she meets  land developer Jonas Fielding, who is best described as a real  &quot;hunk.&quot;  A big conflict comes in when Emilie who cherishes  everything from the past, locks horns with the modern-thinking Jonas.  Of  course the fact that they are both attracted to one another gets the sparks  flying. Things don't always go smoothly as when Emilie discovers Jonas is  building the 18th hole of a golf course right on the ruins of the first  Moravian church in the community.<br />Liz Curtis Higgs has quite a way with  words and her witty, seemless style of writing is very appealing. I laughed  out loud more than once.  I can only hope she writes fast as I can hardly  wait for her next book!	2000-06-06
US	53080622	R29DKYIA9MIRGS	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	2	2	6	N	N	THE PERFECT BORE	I love books about storms.  I love books about the sea.  But this bored me  to tears.  I would much rather have heard more about the storm itself, the  families and loved ones and how they were affected than the boring fishing  details, and tedious descriptions.  I did pass this book on to my husband  and he seems to be enjoying it - it just wasn't my cup of tea.	2000-06-06
US	53080622	R3C80VM7EWMVXH	0505523647	770728227	Once A Pirate	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An awesome read  - very entertaining	For those of you who have become bored with some of the time travel books written in the past several years -- REJOICE!   ONCE A PIRATE is one of most original and fun time travels to come along in many moons!  Anyone who  wants a quick, thoroughly entertaining read need look no further. Read and  enjoy!	2000-05-30
US	53080622	R2HOKX4BVEZX2X	0061030120	569759464	In the Midnight Rain	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stunning!	Ruth Wind, who has been a longtime reader favorite for her category romances, makes a stunning move to single-title contemporary in this incredible story.  Biographer Ellie Connor goes to the town of Pine Bend in  east Texas to research the life of a legendary blues singer who  mysteriously disappeared 40 years previously.  She has an ulterior motive,  too.  She hopes to uncover the truth of who her father is and believes he  also came from this small Texas town.  Ellie has rented a guest house from  &quot;Blue&quot; Reynard, a man she met via the internet who has secrets of  his own.  <br />As Ellie discovers more about her research subject, she learns  about her own past as well.  The story is finely crafted, beautifully told,  and highly recommended.	2000-05-21
US	53080622	R14BVX95OR781Q	0553576917	846483733	Whose Little Girl are You?	Books	5	9	10	N	N	This Book Got Me Out of a Reading Slump	I literally could not put this book down.  I started it in the early afternoon and finished in the wee hours of the next morning.  Bethany Campbell was excellent at unfolding answers to the mystery surrounding the &quot;adoption&quot; of Jaye and her brother Patrick just a little at a  time -- enough to keep the reader turning paces at a frantic pace!   Campbell has created a feisty heroine in Jaye whose curiosity and  determination nearly get her killed.  Turner is a terrific hero even though  he keeps a secret which could threaten his chance of happiness with Jaye.   The minor characters of the residents of the town of Cawdor, Oklahoma were  chillingly well-done - their evil permeating the pages.  Highly  recommended!	2000-04-30
US	53080622	R3EPN841FXES	1576736083	224811550	Negotiator	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Dee Henderson has done it again!	With THE NEGOTIATOR Dee Henderson has again written a riveting story of romantic suspense with an underlying theme of Christian love.  The mystery element is at the center of the story -- and what a mystery it is!   The  relationship between Dave and Kate is very realistically portrayed.   I  enjoyed this story so much I passed it on to my husband to read.	2000-04-25
US	53080622	R3VJ1H7QG4YCJL	155166576X	486674695	Dakota Born (Dakota Series #1)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Mom Couldn't Put it Down!	Although I haven't yet read this book, I wanted to give an outstanding recommendation via my 80-year-old mother who was born and raised in North Dakota and was a schoolteacher there in the 1940s. She grabbed the book  from me while we were traveling in the South Dakota together earlier this  month and despite her complaint of &quot;small print&quot; (she has vision  difficulties) she couldn't put it down.  She couldn't stop remarking on how  much she was loving DAKOTA BORN.  For a person who reads only one or two  books a month, this is outstanding praise.	2000-04-20
US	53080622	R1SX3HFTFKS2YW	0515127868	210393193	To Marry an Irish Rogue (Irish Eyes)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Almost as Good as Being in Ireland!	The talented Lisa Hendrix has penned a wonderful story which will take the readers away in such a fashion that they will actually feel like they have spent time in Ireland along with Brian, Tara, and the inhabitants of  Kilbooly.  I read this book shortly after returning from Ireland and Lisa  has captured the very essence of the Emerald Isle and its people perfectly.  She gives other American authors of books set in Ireland such as Nora  Roberts and JoAnn Ross a real run for their money.  An outstanding book and  highly recommended.	2000-04-05
US	53080622	R3P8L7JVY6LU79	0061030201	844953416	Disguised Blessing	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Another Winner from Georgia Bockoven!	Georgia Bockoven has done it again!  She's created wonderful characters and a world the reader is able to immerse themselves in completely.  <br />Catherine Miller seems to have it all - a luxurious house in a trendy  subdivision, a successful fiance, and lovely teenage daughter.  It all  comes crashing down on her one night when her daughter, Lynda, is burned in  a tragic accident.  Her fiance isn't able to cope with Lynda's problems,  leaving Catherine just when he needs her most.  Rick Sawyer, the  firefighter who is a volunteer support person for burn victims, and is  assigned to Lynda's case, is there to  pick up the pieces, not only  becoming a support for Lynda, but a confidante for Catherine as  well.<br />This book truly took my breath away.  It really put me in  Catherine's world and made me feel a part of it -- feeling her pain and  sorrow -- and finally her need and her love for Rick. This is a book  readers won't be able to put down once they start.  If you enjoy the works  of such great authors of relationship novels as Barbara Delinsky or Kristin  Hannah, you are sure to enjoy this outstanding story from Georgia Bockoven,  the master of the relationship novel.	2000-04-04
US	53080622	RB2VNFF564OR6	1551665921	135146320	Hostage	Books	5	29	32	N	N	An outstanding Read!	When I first heard of the subject matter of Susan Wiggs' latest novel, I was both intrigued and a bit skeptical.  A hostage falling in love with her captor  -- the plot has been done many times before and the subject seemed  dated.  A spoiled little rich girl and a rugged outdoorsman -- ditto.  And,  in less talented hands, the book might have been dated and nothing new.   But given the gifted pen of Susan Wiggs this book works and works well.  A  more exciting beginning would be hard to find -- the story begins with the  Great Chicago Fire of 1871.  The rest of the book takes place on the route  up lake Michigan, through the locks to Lake Superior's Isle Royale,  introducing the readr to a whole host of interesting characters.  A heroine  with a social consience, despite her privileged upbringing and a captor  with a lot of heart - what else can a reader want? I can hardly wait to  read the next two books in the series!	2000-04-04
US	53080622	R32K8EK0KC5HR8	0380810662	798274730	All Night Long	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simply Spectacular Book - Misleading Cover	The cover of this book more accurately should have shown either a picture of a farm scene -- Victorian house with a typical midwestern barn or, if it was going to feature the characters the hero should have been blond-haired  with a mustache, more at home in jeans and t-shirts and the heroine in  casual dress.  But that's a small complaint of this otherwise spectacular  novel which proves you should never judge a book by its  cover.<br />Writer/photographer Annie Beckett has been researching the  disappearance of her ancestor Lewis Hudson for ten years.  Her search has  brought her to Black Hawk Hollow in Wisconsin, the place where Hudson was  last known to have been back in 1832.  Seeing this as a great subject for  one of her coffee table books, Annie writes to Rurik Magnussen, the man who  runs a dairy farm on the land where Black Hawk Hollow is located.<br />  Magnussen (who thinks the writer is likely an older woman) is reluctant to  allow anything - or anyone - upset his daily routine.  But Annie, who  thinks Mr. Magnussen is probably an elderly curmudgeon, persists.  They  lock horns when Annie arrives, but her determination pays off and  Magnussen, a sexy 34-year-old better known as Rik, not only allows her to  take pictures of his land, but also allows her to rent a small studio  apartment in his home.<br /> Magnussen has been living a solitary life  since his wife left him for his best friend. He is still hurt, bitter, and  reluctant to let anyone else in his life, despite his physical attraction  to Annie.     Annie had a troubled childhood, shuffled from foster home  to foster home, and has been searching for years for someone or something  stable in her life.  Never in her wildest dreams did she figure it would be  on a dairy farm in Wisconsin.<br /> As Annie takes her photos and delves  deeper into the history of the area, she finds a comrade in the president  of the local historical society, Owen Decker, who just happens to be the  man who is now married to Rik's ex-wife - a man Rik has never forgiven for  betraying him.  We also have Rik's teenage daughter, Heather, frequently at  odds with her Dad, but who finds an ally in Annie.<br /> A sexier hero  than the Scandinavian Rik would be hard to find.  And headstrong Annie  makes a formidable opponent in the game of love.<br /> Ms. Jerott opens  each chapter with a letter from over a century and a half ago from either  Lewis Hudson, his fiancée or his mother.  The inclusion of these letters  and in this manner, leads authenticity to the novel.     From a  historical mystery to solve, to an oh-so sexy hero, to passionate love  scenes, and an exciting and dramatic conclusion, this book grabs the reader  from the very first page and doesn't let go.  There is never a dull moment  in this innovative and outstanding sophomore effort from new author  Michelle Jerott.  It is this reviewer's opinion that this author is really  going to be a big success, especially if ALL NIGHT LONG is any indication  of her talents.  She writes with such a maturity that it's difficult to  believe this is just her second book.  To merely say I loved it is an  understatement.  This is an absolutely terrific book, which should be  enjoyed by many.	2000-04-03
US	53080622	R1M8YZU5OF3STE	0446608114	41148266	After the Parade	Books	5	52	54	N	N	A Terrific end to a Groundbreaking Series	Dorothy Garlock's series set in the 30s and 40s has been truly groundbreaking -- not many romance novels being set in these decades.   <br />AFTER THE PARADE continues the story of Johnny Henry and Kathleen Dolan  from WITH HEART.  And tells the story of them and their marriage after  Johnny returns from World War II.  Their marriage is in jeopardy after the  death of their infant daughter -- a death Johnny blames on himself and his  heritage.  There is also something more dangerous about as an admirer of  Kathleen's crosses the line from admiration to obsession. <br />Dorothy  Garlock deftly tells their story as only someone of her talent can.  Here's  hoping more authors follow her lead and write stories set in the 30s and  40s.  AFTER THE PARADE is a must read.	2000-03-30
US	53080622	R2JARVQIDS3GSA	0671785885	980408671	Brown-Eyed Girl	Books	5	43	43	N	N	One of the best Romantic Suspense Books I've Ever Read	I love Romantic Suspense.  I particularly love it when an author whose work I've enjoyed moves to romantic suspense without sacrificing the romantic element of the story.  Mariah Stewart has done this with BROWN  EYED GIRL.  Gripping suspense, but passionate romance together in a book  readers won't be able to put down once they start.   <br />Leah McDevitt is a  features editor for a well-known magazine whose younger sister has been  missing for several years.  When a man who is on death row says he might  have some information regarding her, Leah is anxious to meet with him.  She  does so, but the meeting does not lead to any concrete information instead  the convicted killer wants money.  Leah agrees to send him half now, half  after he gives her more info.  But, before he is able to reveal what he  knows, he is killed by another prison inmate.   <br />Leah is crushed. Just  when she thought she might have some peace of mind she is crushed again.  She seeks the help of the only other person she knows might be able to give  her assistance, Ethan Sanger, the author of a book on the killer Leah  talked to in prison.  But Ethan is reluctant to share this information  because in doing so, he will have to relive memories he's spent years  trying to forget.  <br />Nail biting suspense ensues when Leah realizes her  own life is in danger.  This is a highly recommended read.	2000-03-28
US	53080622	RCMDLQMK1G2EY	0609605925	781244785	Angel Falls	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Another Kristin Hannah Gem!	Kristin Hannah has become one of the best writers fiction has to offer at creating emotional stories which are absolutely un-put-downable!  In ANGEL FALLS she tells the story of how Mikaela' Campbell's family is affected  after Mikaela lapses into a coma as a result of a horse-riding accident.    Her husband is willing to do anything it takes to increase her chances of  recovery, even if it means that with her survival, he could lose her to  another man.  With all the poignancy which has become a hallmark of Kristin  Hannah's novels, comes a story beautifully written, and an absolute gem.   Highly recommended!	2000-03-21
US	53080622	R31OLK4D3BV56A	157856140X	493694886	When the Far Hills Bloom (California Chronicles #1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An outstanding novel	It's 1860s California and the Byrne family is about to lose their home, Rancho de la Paloma because they have had to use all available finances to fight to prove its boundaries. Aislin Byrne has been friends with Jamie  Dearbourne from the neighboring rancho all her life and it was always  believe they would marry, so when he asks for her hand just before he  leaves to go fight in the Civil War, no one is surprised.  But when word  comes of Jamie's death, it seems it will be necessary for Aislin to marry  Jamie's brother, Spence, in order to help save both their ranchos.   Then,  when word comes that Jamie might not be dead after all, Aislin joins in the  search and will be honor-bound to marry him even though she has found it is  Spence she really loves.  Aislin's father doesn't realize that his supposed  friend, Hugh Dearbourne, father to Jamie and Spence is actually sabotaging  his efforts to save his home and everything he has worked so hard to  achieve.  Jamie and Spence soon join forces to break and deliver wild  mustangs to the army in order to save the rancho and in doing so, attempt  to find out the truth about Jamie as well.  <br />This is an outstanding  novel, superbly crafted and richly textured with may surprising twists and  turns.  Published by Bantam's Christian/Inspirational imprint, Waterbrook  Press, this novel will appeal to historical romance readers everywhere.   Although the character's beliefs are quite evident, they never overpower  the story, and simply help motivate Aislin, Spence, and others to keep  going even though the going gets tough.   Diane Noble is one of the best  writers of &quot;inspirational&quot; romance today.   Her thoroughly  researched, compelling stories are worthy of a wider audience than they  will receive simply marketed as &quot;inspirational&quot; novels.  This  book shouldn't simply be read by the &quot;Christian&quot; audience as the  beliefs expressed by the characters are universal. I understand its the  firstof a trilogy, but this one certainly stands on its own.	2000-01-03
US	53080622	R38R750M1J5PO0	0425171906	202486724	The Day We Met	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A Terrific Relationship Book	Maggy O'Brien is the divorced mother of two.  Her sisters surprise her for her 35th birthday by giving her a complete makeover and a weekend in Atlantic City at a casino.   There she meets cop Conor Riley who is still  haunted by the death of his partner -- thinking he might have been able to  prevent it.  He literally sweeps Maggy off her feet and they have a  glorious weekend together.  They fall for each other immediately but all  doesn't go well as despite their ages (35 and 38) they still have meddling  families. It isn't until a near tragedy occurs that the families can put  their meddling behind them. This is a elationship story at its best.   I  haven't read a lot of Barbara Bretton's stories but really  enjoyed her  SLEEPING ALONE a couple years ago, and now with this one she's definitely  on my automatic buy list.	1999-12-23
US	53080622	R6B0M2UD5K58M	0440223342	54934986	With this Kiss	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Fabulous!	WITH THIS KISS had everything I look for in a romance -- a tender hero, touching love scenes, a strong woman heroine, and even a mystery to solve. I will be hunting down this author's backlist.	1999-12-21
US	53080622	RK12V3ZZUZ8GR	006108705X	512419527	A Season in Eden	Books	5	10	17	N	N	A Spectacular Read -- Not Your Typical Romance . . .	but nothing Megan Chance writes could be called &quot;typical&quot; she continually pushes the envelope of the romance genre and gifts readers with something special and original every time. With A SEASON IN EDEN she gives  us a book written in first person.  To see how Lora grows as a person and  somehow overcomes her grief with the aid of a most unlikely friend, results  in one of the best historical fiction books of the year.  This book deserve  a much bigger audience than it will get marketed only as a &quot;historical  romance.&quot;  Megan Chance's books more often than not transcend the  genre.  Her publisher should realize what a gem of a writer they have and  give her the boost she deserves.  I agree with the quote from Kristin  Hannah, if you read one historical romance this year, make it A SEASON IN  EDEN.  If you are a member of a reading group - this book is one that cries  out to be discussed. I loved everything about this book -- from the first  person POV, the subject matter, and the setting (my husband's grandparents  homesteaded in the very area this book is set).  I look forward to the next  innovative novel from Ms. Chance.	1999-12-05
US	53080622	R1K9RYPJ53ONPO	157673577X	306852563	Danger In The Shadows	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Gripping Romantic Suspense!	Superbly crafted, skillfully written, DANGER IN THE SHADOWS is romantic suspense at its very best.  I admit to sometimes being hesitant in reading an &quot;inspirational&quot; romance as I am afraid I am going to be  preached to.  Not so with this book.  Believing in God was a part of the  hero and heroine's everyday lives but it definitely didn't overpower the  story or even throw the reader out of the story. It was simply deftly woven  in and in an unobtrusive way.  I can't wait for Dave's story!	1999-09-19
US	53080622	RNI33VUV3CARB	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	BARNETT OUTDOES HERSELF!!!	Lady Sofia Beatrice Rosalynde Anne Therese Howard is a ward of King Edward and Queen Eleanor, having lived with them since the death of her parents when she was four.  Sofia is, to put it mildly, a rather spirited young  lady and tries the patience of the royal pair at every turn.  Not only is  she spirited but beautiful and nearly every eligible bachelor in the land  has tried to win her hand.  However Sofia won't settle for anything other  than true love.  Then she sees him - the man of her dreams.  A knight -  tall, dark, and handsome.  Quickly grabbing her best friend, she is off in  pursuit.<br /> Sir Tobin de Clare is that tall, dark, and handsome knight.   Brave in battle, dutiful to his king, he is attracted to the lovely and  spirited Sofia.  However his prideful and stubborn nature prevent him from  letting her know his true feelings and she believes he is paying her  attention simply out of lust and desire for her dowry - just like the other  suitors she's had in the past. <br /> A more stubborn pair than these two  would be hard to find.  Tobin breaks Sofia's heart more than once in the  name of pride, but soon the two are betrothed.   But when Sofia defies the  King and flirts with danger, he forces the young lovers to remain apart.    But still, the two continue in their headstrong ways.  <br /> Wonderfully  drawn secondary characters add to the enjoyment of this marvelous love  story.  Sofia's two mother figures, Queen Eleanor and Sister Judith, are  particularly well-done. Readers of Barnett's previous books in this series  will welcome the appearance of the hero and heroine from WONDERFUL.   Readers will readily identify with Sofia's broken heart, her longing for  true love, and her playful antics of retaliation.      Jill Barnett has  written her best book to date with WICKED - a title which belies its  powerful, exquisite love story.  I wasn't prepared for the intensity, the  beauty, the depth of emotion.  Sofia and Tobin's story should go down asone of the classic love stories of all time -- right up there with Romeo  and Juliet (only not as tragic &lt;g&gt;). WICKED is the best historical  romance I've read this year.  Keep the hankies handy for this real keeper  which is complete with all the fun, wit, and poignancy which readers have  come to expect of a Jill Barnett novel.	1999-09-12
US	53080622	R1LRCGON0XCZ6W	0373225245	139113873	The Bride's Secret (Harlequin Intrigue, No. 524)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wondeful modern gothic	Adrianne Lee strikes gold with THE BRIDE'S SECRET, a wonderful modern gothic with enough twists and turns to keep even the most avid mystery reader turning the pages.  Like the TV show &quot;Mystery, She Wrote&quot;  Ms. Lee gives the reader plenty of suspects and keeps them guessing to the  very end.  Well done!	1999-09-11
US	53080622	R3FKBJ4YZ09D6W	0821763547	843299788	Stolen Wishes (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A very special read	Living deep in the woods of Oklahoma, Mary Goode watches over her brood like a mother hen.  Sometimes tiring of their game of Robin Hood, Mary nevertheless puts up with their antics for the sake of her brother Robin  and his friends \\"Little John\\" and \\"Friar Tuck.\\"  Mary is the only family  Robin has left and being what was termed in the 180os as \\"slow\\" he needs  her more than he sometimes thinks.<br />Stumbling into their camp which the  group has christened, \\"Sherwood Forest\\" is U.S. Marshall Shane Latimer.   He's on the trail of a group of outlaws who steal from the rich and give to  the poor and believe he has found who he's looking for.  However, a run-in  with a rattlesnake puts his plans on hold.  As Mary tenderly and expertly  cares for Latimer (who Robin has christened Will Scarlet), an attraction  develops between the two.   Shane fakes amnesia in his quest to infiltrate  the band of outlaws - or at least to find out what antics Robin and his  friends are up to.  He believes them to be up to no good, but also believes  Mary to be innocent of any wrongdoing.  <br />Adding to the appeal of this  story is Robin's romance with Little John's sister, Walks with Sunshine,  who is also \\"slow.\\"   The  author has created these two special characters  with a great deal of depth and insight making them very real to the reader.   <br />Deb Stover, whose forte has been her sensual time travels, makes the  transition to historical romance in this doozy of a good yarn.   Fans will  also welcome the appearance of Sam Weathers from her 1996 time-travel,  A  WILLING SPIRIT.  The great storytelling, tight prose, sexual tension, and  rich characterization all combine for a very special book which readers  will find difficult to put down once started.<br />Although a departure for  Ms. Stover, STOLEN WISHES does not disappoint her legions of fans.   Charming, tender, and absolutely fabulous, this is a keeper in every sense  of the word.	1999-08-31
US	53080622	R3J1R797EIVGS9	0451408403	350883389	Circle of Time	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Lynn Hanna does it again!!!!	Taking us again to the Scottish Highlands, Lynn Hanna has written another book full of legend, lore, and romance. Kyle makes a wonderful hero and there are plenty of appearances by Matt, Rainey, and Sasha (and Malcolm,  Emma, and Angus) to keep THE STARRY CHILD fans satisfied.  Chapters one and  seven are particularly powerful not only in the writing but in the  emotional tug.  And for those of you who were delighted with the surprising  twist at the conclusion of TSC, Ms. Hanna does not disappoint.  Her  surprising twists at the end of books are going to become her trademark,  I'm afraid (I hope &lt;g&gt;).   Run, don't walk to the stores and get this  one!	1999-08-08
US	53080622	R23V6VWS35236K	0821762877	990600100	Homespun Hearts (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A new star in Americana Romance!!!	In the tradition of authors such as LaVyrle Spencer, Lorraine Heath, Stephanie Mittman, and Dorothy Garlock, newcomer Cynthia Thomason has created an Americana romance to treasure as she brings the 1800s to life in  Sam and Abby's touching and endearing story.  HOMESPUN HEARTS is pure joy  to read.	1999-08-06
US	53080622	RODGZLNWMSFSZ	0515126128	364573264	Razzle Dazzle (Magical Love)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Razzle Dazzle is Pure Magic!	Readers will fall under Hendrix' magical spell as she weaves this appealing story.  Well-drawn secondary characters add to the charm and to the overall enjoyment of a book readers will be sorry to see  end.<br />Although known for her American historicals, Lisa Hendrix makes the  transition into contemporary romance smoothly.  RAZZLE DAZZLE is a  delightful, sexy, story with enough humor and passion to keep even the most  discerning reader satisfied.  With endearing characters and lively repartee  in the tradition of Susan Elizabeth Phillips, Hendrix is a bright new voice  in contemporary romance. Reading should always be this much fun.  RAZZLE  DAZZLE is a keeper in every sense of the word.	1999-05-31
US	53080622	R13HC7J8AN780L	0060191929	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	One of the Top Books of the Year	Get ready for a phenomenal reading experience with THE SAVING GRACES.  Gaffney who has been known for her versatile historical romances, pulls out all the stops in this credible story of friendship.  One of the top reads  of the year!	1999-05-29
US	53080622	R2AZUACE78W5B3	044022554X	41377087	A Kiss to Dream On	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For those who like LaVyrle Spencer!	The shock that LaVyrle Spencer isn't writing any longer should be softened by the fact that we now have Stephanie Mittman's books to read.  A KISS TO DREAM ON is a classic marriage of convenience story with that little  something extra that had become Mittman's trademark.  This book justly  deserves all the accolades.  Gideon is a hero to cherish.  Read and enjoy!	1999-05-28
US	53080622	R36S8N8D4VYQCC	1551664844	746193661	Breaking The Silence (Love Inspired)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Spectacular and Riveting!!!	What a wonderful, wonderful book!  I was up into the wee hours finishing and still this morning can't get it out of my mind.  What powerful story. Chamberlain is one of the best there is at writing of difficult  relationships.  The reader really gets two stories in one here as Laura's  quest to find out why her father wanted her to take care of Alzheimer's  patient Sarah Tolley after his death reveals insights into her own life as  she deals with trying to get her young daughter to speak again.  Excellent!	1999-04-11
US	53080622	R2RV3U562CNQ66	0316789089	760222125	The Pilot's Wife	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the Best Books I've Read This Year	The Pilot's wife was engrossing.  I very nearly did not buy this book but am certainly glad I did. Everything else stopped for me while reading this book.  Not only is it one of the best Oprah book selections I've read but  it is on my list of top reads so far this year.  The only concern I had was  how Mattie was going to react if she ever found out that she has two  half-siblings.  I wish Kathryn had the courage to tell Mattie the truth.	1999-04-06
US	53080622	R2R8HTK1NPD81O	0688160344	304772349	When I Fall in Love	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	I Didn't Want this Book to End	What a marvelous story Iris Rainier Dart has written!  Lily Benjamin is a single mother and writer for a TV sitcom.  Engaged to a cardiologist, her life is very nearly complete.  When tragedy strikes, support comes from a  very unlikely source - her new boss, Charlie, himself afflicted with  cerebral palsy.  This is a terrific book which will have readers laughing  through their tears.  What a delightful, life-affirming book!  I can hardly  wait for the movie!	1999-03-25
US	53080622	R22PAV0M4O9J2J	0061013625	35342423	Rachel's Passage	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning - Paula Reid is magnificent	Rachel's Passage is a wonderful story of a woman who has been charged with &quot;criminal conversation&quot; aka adultery.   I loved the way Reid varied between first person and third person narrative. I hope the author  plans on writing more books like this, with similar settings.	1999-01-31
US	53080622	RU2DHSR2WX1ZZ	1578560144	590060599	The Veil (The Cult Series #1)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A Gripping Novel from Page One	Diane Noble's THE VEIL is a magnificent story, very compelling and even sometimes painful to read.  Including atrocities done by the early Mormons, its much more than that.  It is a history lesson, a story of faith, a story  of strength and perseverence and a love story.  Well written and inspiring,  it is a must read for anyone who likes stories with strong women  characters.  I'm looking forward to more stories like this from this  author.	1999-01-08
US	53080622	R2QVIOVOBVD0LF	0671004166	792921692	Wonderful You	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A beautiful story	Mariah Stewart introduced the Enright family in DEVLIN'S LIGHT (Nick Enright's story).  She follows it up with WONDERFUL YOU the story of Nick's sister Zoey.   There are no villians in this book, just a bunch of people  you'd like to know.  Readers will love the story of Zoey and her childhood  friend, Ben.  There are some great scenes when Zoey, who works on-camera at  a home shopping network, cooks for the audience.  Zoey is no cook and makes  no bones about it.  There are great secondary characters, too. Stewart has  another winner here.  I can hardly wait for sister Georgia's story.	1998-12-13
US	53080622	R2AGGQ8I30JZF0	0515124079	453125218	Eternity (Immortal Witches)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A magnificent work!!!	This is the first Maggie Shayne novel I've read, and believe me, it won't be the last.  This is a magnificent novel of a love surviving the test of time.  Truly a story that can't help but touch the heart and soul of all  who read it.  A keeper in every sense of the word. I anxiously await the  sequel!	1998-11-18
US	53080622	RF8MTDF839E43	0451408381	356888472	The Starry Child	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sensational	Lynn Hanna's debut is a spellbinding mix of fantasy, suspense, and  contemporary romance.  Matt Macinnes is the sexiest hero to come along in  quite some time.  Intelligently written, original, and set both on the  Pacific coast and in the Scottish Highlands, this one's a keeper.	1998-09-18
US	53080622	RSRIZMI71XDG6	1575663120	875677172	French Quarter	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderful novel - reminiscent of Sidney Sheldon	With FRENCH QUARTER, Stella Cameron has written a real winner.  This book will appeal to men as well as women with its intriguing plot (politics, the mob).  This is one book you can't put down!  Outstanding!	1998-08-05
US	53080622	RWQLSIF1PWGIV	0399143696	346193544	Then Came Heaven	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Stunningly beautiful!!!	This is one of the most beautiful books I've ever had the privilege to read. When at first I heard the news LaVyrle Spencer was retiring, I wasn't really disappointed because several of her later books had fallen flat for me.  Now, I'm suddenly struck by the sadness of never, ever being able to read a new book of hers again.    The setting is 1950 in a small Polish community in Browerville, MN - Spencer's hometown. Perhaps it's her familiarity with the setting that makes this book come alive.  The book opens as the community is stunned by the death of a young wife and mother, Krystyna.  No one is more grief-stricken than her husband, Eddie, who is the janitor and bellringer for the local Catholic church and school.  Their two daughters, Anne and Lucy are 4th and 3rd graders taught by Sister Regina.  Sister Regina has been questioning her vows and now that she is prevented from physically comforting the girls, she questions them even more.  As the book progresses, Sr. Regina and Eddie begin to have feelings for each other but are frustrated by not being able to act on these feelings.  I'm hesitant to reveal more for fear of spoiling this very wonderful, touching book. Please do yourself a favor this Holiday season and treat yourself to this book!	1997-12-19
US	53080622	R3MYTMAMGX606Z	0671881612	249435806	Isabel'S Bed	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must read	This book was great reading for not only relaxing on the beach but for more serious readers as well.  The quirks and foibles of the group of characters living at Isabel's house on the beach should appeal to many readers.  Isabel,  Harriet, Costas,  Pete and even Kenny were so real - the reader almost feels she/he knows them personally.  It was hard to say goodbye at the end of the book.  I will be looking for other Lipman books ASAP.	1997-10-29
