US	53085624	RFZSIY4MCF3GV	0805051597	426322028	Among the Gently Mad: Strategies and Perspectives for the Book-Hunter in the 21st Century	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The World Needs More Gently Mad Folks	Nicholas Basbanes loves books. He loves everything about books. Their history. Their tactile feel. Stores, fairs and homes full of them. Hordes of them. The esoteric among them. And, he loves those who collect them.<br />He loves us so much that he has written this little tome to help us. He wants us to have a focus. He wants us to love the search. He absolutley warns against collecting as a sure-fire investment (but, boy, has he lots of wildly improbable, but true, finds).<BR>Basbanes' previous works A GENTLE MADNESS and PATIENCE &amp; FORTITUDE discuss the myriad aspects of the book, and, apparently, he has a third in the series aborning. Yet in AMONG THE GENTLY MAD he tells stories illustrating &quot;strategies and perspectives for the book hunter&quot;. Although readable in a day or so, this is one book on books I'm sure to reread again and again. It is that fun. And that good.	2002-11-11
US	53085624	R1NN5OEKBU8SG0	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	33	43	N	N	Janet Evanovich Meets Frank Capra	There is a new sub-genre in popular literature: the Christmas novella brought to you by, at first glance, unlikely writers. Last year it was John Grisham. In 2002 Dave Balducci and Janet Evanovich join in. The books are fun, probably over-priced, and sell well for a month or two.<br />Imagine Bedford Falls morphing into the Burg. Jimmy Stewart's character is now Stephanie Plum. Zuzu is now Mary Alice, the kid-horse niece. And the rumpled angel is now a blond, pony-tailed hunk who pops unannouced into Stephanie's bedroom. (Of course, that isn't exceedingly rare!)<br />The book doesn't make a whole lotta sense (fantasy desn't play fabulously well in Jersey, I guess). But it is good fun. There is a character named Sandy Claws. Grandma Mazur has a new stud muffin who is quite a handful. And Stephanie, frantic about messing up and missing another Christmas, ends up in bed with Joe Morelli. Which makes it a great Christmas. This is a good read on a chilly early winter evening.<br />And to all a good night!	2002-11-11
US	53085624	R1ACYU7XQ9CHJH	0316415022	888530801	Captain Saturday: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Generous Spirit	In the hands of many modern novelists (of the John cheever ilk) this novel of a middle-aged man losing his job, wife and self-respect would be a dreary depiction of life in the &quot;soulness&quot; of their America. But not here. <br />Will Baggett, formerly lead weatherman at Raleigh's channel 7 is a man who seeks out validation and human connection in malls rather than at home, Baggett is fired when a conglomerate buys out the family-run station and decides to cut costs by hiring a younger, cheaper weather personality. Within short order Will injures himself, his wife gives him the boot, he learns that his soon is failing med school and he goes to jail for possession of marijuana. <br />Rather than dwelling on the failure of the protagonist, Inman goes back in time to sketch Will's goofily eccentric family and in the process lets the reader figure out the man Will has become. Upon his release from jail, Will begins to remake himself and finally finds out the person he could have been.<br />Peopled with wonderfully quirky Southern characters and imbued with a generous loving spirit, CAPTAIN SATURDAY is an affirmation of love, family, honor and generosity. A delghtful subplot is the romance between his cousin Wingfoot and a former basketball player now country singer. Read this book for an uplifting, yet honest, portrayal of a good man.	2002-08-04
US	53085624	R1WQ47W8ZCCBA6	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What a Find!	This is a wonderful book and a grand start to a series. Set in the Civil War FADED COAT OF BLUE features Abel Jones a recent arrival to these shores from Wales via a stint in the British army in India. Despite his recent marriage to his Welsh sweetheart Mary Myfanwy and the arrival of his new son, Abel feels honor-bound to fight for his new adoptive country. But after suffering a shattered leg in an heroic action (which he genuinely downplays) at Bull Run, Jones finds himself clerking in Washington D.C. <br />Soon, however, Abel finds himself the confidential agent of newly elevated General George McClellan who directs him to investigate the death of a Philadelphia golden boy assassinated on a Washington campground. Abel, a non-drinking, non-cussing, straight-thinking Methodist, is soon swept up into matters seemingly far beyond his experience and understanding.<br />We meet several delightful characters who prove to be series stalwarts: Mary Myfanwy herslef (clearer thinking and more worldly wise than her husband), Mrs. Schutzengel (Abel's stout German landlady and budding communist), Jimmy Molloy (a former Irish underling from the India wars now a down-and-out drunk), and Dr. Tyrone (protestent Irish, incredibly cynical physician). Their interactions with Abel highlight his character and their assistance helps him solve the riddle of murder, greed and corruption swirling around Washington.<br />This mystery is several cuts above the norm. The writing is powerful, the ideas are compelling, the characters are real and the setting is beautifully delineated. And the few pages wherein we meet President Lincoln are truly fine. This is a superior book.	2002-07-22
US	53085624	R33SGAP6O04E00	0792265211	719029750	Oaxaca Journal (National Geographic Directions)	Books	4	79	81	N	N	Oddly Satisfying	What an odd little book. Just as he was finishing writing the brilliant UNCLE TUNGSTEN professor of nuerology Oliver Sachs joins an eleven day journey to Oaxaca with a band of botantists the putative purpose of which is to study ferns. Now Oliver likes ferns; he is a member of the American Fern Society and appreciates the antiquity and remarkable adaptability of ferns as much as the average guy (ok--the average, brilliant botanist). The book is replete with charming drawings of ferns and lots of Latin names and fernish descriptions. But it isn't really about ferns.<br />It is also a quite wonderful description of this special section of southern Mexico. As well as describing the tremendous variety of plant life found in this Mexican state he also is stunned by the variety of food. One restaurant has well over 100 dishes none the same and few immediately recognizable to his North American eye. Sachs tosses in a good deal of history--of the ancient Aztecs, Toltecs, Zapotecs and Mayans as well as Cortez and the conquering Spaniards. He also passes on a few pointed comments about the church and the modern disaster that is Mexican government. He is intrigued by Oaxaca and thinks about the necessity of returning. But this book isn't really about Oaxaca or Mexico herself.<br />The thirty plus botantists on this tour are an soortment of gays, lesbians, heterosexuals--all in couples save Sachs. He remarks that he has always been a loner--never really part of a couple. One night after drinking a lot of mescal they all ascend a mountaintop to observe a lunar ecliipse. Sachs enjoys the joking and camaraderie immensely, but as the eclipse approaches totality he goes off by himself to best appreciate the event. Almost through the trip he finds himself feeling oddly. After much reflection he decides that he must be feeling joy--because of the adventure, the scientific richness of all he sees, the new experience of Mexico; and, to some degree, because he feels part of a group. Andthat, I think, is the heart of this book. A brilliant but lonesome man finds sustenance and joy in the company of his peers. An odd, but absolutely charming, little book.	2002-07-17
US	53085624	R9QP0IT2E5R08	0060975059	948464496	French Dirt: The Story of a Garden in the South of France	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Little Old Gardenmaker, Me	Richard Goodman and his Dutch girlfriend Iggy rent a two hundred year old stone house in the south of France for a year. Located in a small village of about 200 without a cafe, store or any kind of city center, they have a tough time figuring out how to connect with the locals. They do make one set of friends--a Spanish couple also living the expat life there.<br />But finally Richard decides to trade his labor for some firewood. Through working in the fields he begins to mix with the villagers. He is very much struck by Jules, a handsome 25 year old, and through that relationship eventually secures a small plot of land and determines to grow a vegetable garden.<br />And that really is the focus of the book. A longtime city dweller, Richard harkens back to the Michigan gardens of his youth and enjoys discovering the adult joys of gardening. Sometimes the writing gets to be a bit much--pretty sappy. And, if the truth be told, Richard isn't really very good at growing his garden. But the rivalries among the other village gardeners, the disparate and conflicting advice he receives and the hours spent in the sun tending his garden make this a light, likable read. And truly any book set in the south of France makes for a relaxing summer read!	2002-07-16
US	53085624	R3GADWEIN5GUQ7	0441009360	72874657	Knight Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Camelot 2002: A Satiric Fantasy	Peter David has re-worked and re-issued his first novel Knight Life. In this updating of the Arthurian legend Arthur Penn (real last name Pendragon, get it?) returns to New York City to run for mayor as an independent. His Republican opponent is a gritty, profane prosecutor (hmmm....). The Democrat is a handsome actor who has played a big city mayor in a tv series. Too funny...<br />Much of the rest of the legendary cast joins Arthur. Merlin looks like an eleven year old (remember, he lives and ages backwards) who dresses as a prep schooler. Morgan is here: dark, evil and sexy as ever. Mordred is a p.r. agent (ha!). Lancelot is a failed writer into s. and m. while Guinivere is initially an abused woman who grows mightily as the book progresses. Galahad is passingly refered to (he doesn't make the modern cut) as the whiny virgin. <br />The book is laugh-out-loud hilarious. Luckily Arthur is outfitted with plastic credit when he arrives in NYC so he is able to trade his armor in for Brooks Brother-like duds. His first speech on a street corner is clever. His dismay during a televised three-way debate when his opponents evade all the questions using them as set pieces for a pre-written riff is painfully funny.<br />This is a funny, satiric and, oddly, profound book. The melding of Arthurian honor and modern poitical opportunism is unsettling and yet by the end hopeful. Read this book for a fun time and a strangely compelling affirmation of man's basic goodness.	2002-07-07
US	53085624	R1VUD4JRJVCLTG	0553107305	542824007	Chopping Spree	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Cooking in Colorado	Caterer Goldy Schulz continues to cook and snoop in this eleventh installment in the Diane Mott Davidson series. Like all good series, this has an oddball and likeable lead, a eccentric supporting cast, a well-drawn setting and, of course, a moderately compelling mystery.<br />In this one Goldy is riding high as the book opens. For a change, money is pouring in as the ultra-rich have made her \\"their\\" caterer. But soon all turns sour: her adored fourteen year old son turns surly and uncommunicative; she is almost run over by a runaway truck in the parking lot of a mall undergoing reconstruction; an old acquaintance from college is murdered; and her adored and trusted assistant Julian is arrested for the murder.<br />But not to despair. Through hard work, despite several red herrings, and after hauling a friend out of waist-high muck from a floorless outhouse (!), Goldy solves the case. Truth and justice are restored in this well-written, fun mystery series. Give it a try.	2002-07-04
US	53085624	R2GF7WYYNN0FBY	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Evanovich Keeps Her Groove	Have you read this series? If no, start now! If yes, buy Hard Eight ASAP; fun reading lies ahead! Unlike Grafton's \\"alphabet series\\" which is getting formulaic and almost boring, Evanovich continues her \\"number series\\" at her high standard.<br />Stephanie Plum continues to be a vitally inept bounty hunter. In this one she loses four (or is it five?) sets of handcuffs. She needs help bringing in one of her targets as he suffers from poor equilibrium: she cuffs him, he falls over, he's too fat to right himself--believe me, its laugh-out-loud funny. And, of course, Grandma Mazur continues her two favorite activities: ogling every man under seventy and haunting wakes to checkout the mortician's handiwork. Stephanie continues to be conflicted about her two men: the mysterious Ranger and cop Joe Moretti. Her stout heart and indefatigable manner finally pay off--you know they will--and the good guys triumph.<br />Evanovich is a master of presenting a time and place: the Burg in New Jersey. Her humor is rampant and her characters are winning. Like I said: start or continue this series. Now!	2002-06-27
US	53085624	R30XX36UAC6UFU	0385498179	278220170	Me and Shakespeare: Life-Changing Adventures with the Bard	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Best is Yet To Be	The wonderfully unique book is best appreciated if you are Jewish, a senior citizen and/or a Shakespeare buff. Herman Gollob, recently retired from his editing chores at a publishing house, falls madly in love with Shakespeare. He rejects a retreat from societal intercourse and volunteers to teach a course on Shakespeare in the lifelong learning institute of a local college. There he finds an avocation and purpose that will carry him into his senior years.<br />Gollob finds a love for research--both book-centered and travel-enhanced. He takes a three week course on the bard at Oxford where he does research in the august Bodleian Library. He dips his toes into the quiet purposefulness of the Folger Library in Washington, D.C. He attends a soul-inspiring performance of Hamlet at the newly rebuilt Globe Theater along the Thames in Southwark. He interviews actors and directos and watches them work. <br />Along the way he enjoys the company of his elderhostel students. He recalls his feelings as a youngster in Texas and his rediscovery of his Jewishness. He ponders the process of aging and the place of oldsters in our society. He becomes clear that Shakespeare valued the heart and emotions much more than pure intellect. He imagines Shakespeare being influenced by a Jewish mentor most noticeably in the writing of King Lear. This odd conceit becomes oddly compelling as the book unfolds.  <br />Earlier I said you had to be a senior, Jewish or a Shakespeare buff to enjoy this book. Not really. I'm a little bit of two of these (pre-senior and former English teacher) and I liked this book a ton. Really what is needed is the ability to enjoy a character who brings a zest and a fervor to life. And Herman <BR>Gollob certainly does that.	2002-05-27
US	53085624	RY3XODML2WXVN	0670882313	803958982	Martin Luther King, Jr. (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Insights into a Man and his Times	This is one of the best of the often excellent Penguin Lives series. Martin Luther King is presented as a real man with insecurities, self-doubts, college plagarizing and womanizing. But he is also shown as the key individual in the incredible progress (I know it doesn't feel like it--but read the book and its picture of the country in the fifties!) we have made in the area of race relations. <br />MLK is portrayed as a man who rose above his everydayness to achieve insights into the areas of race, poverty and oppression which would move a nation. Blessed in his enemies--the egregious Bull Connor, the banty rooster George Wallace (in his first incarnation) and the despicable J. Edgar Hoover--gave the nation a contrast in possibilities. Despite the reluctance of the Kennedys, the backbiting of his own lieutenants and the inconstancy of the national media, MLK made a difference. To read about his speech at the Linclon Memorial still gives me shivers. <br />This is a fair, honest portrait of a man who made a difference.	2002-05-11
US	53085624	R2AAL5XMGRR0KQ	0792265238	558839736	A Writer's House in Wales (National Geographic Directions)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Pack the Suitcase. We're off to Wales.	Jan Morris is a superb travel writer. She's been everywhere--Manhattan, Australia, Venice, Candada, Trieste, etc. etc.--and brings an open-minded, generous view to places near and far. After declaring last year that she was done writing, out she comes with \\"A Writer's House in Wales\\" a love poem to her own corner of the world.<br />Wales is rocky, hilly, wild and smack up against the Atlaantic. Its people, among the oldest of Britain's many peoples, hve clung to their language, their rocky shores, their magic for centuries against the many Saxon, Norman, and English incursions. One hopes they can withstand the latest onslaught of modern \\"culture\\".<br />Morris waxes eloquently about her centuries old house--once a stable--which she preserves. It is strangely modular from the heart of the house downstairs kitchen where neighbors stop to gossip and the postman drops in to leave the mail (once catching Morris descending her stairs in the buff!) to the entirely separate library and study where she does her work.<br />The house is delightful. The grounds overgrown and magical. Morris worships--at least metaphorically--the ancient god Pan and the book reflects that: a sensuality and sensibility that are natural, druidical and incredibly appealing. This is a quick delightful read, wherein you gain insights into a wonnderful land and a unique individual. Take the trip!	2002-04-24
US	53085624	R31M7FPN2LO53S	067003021X	968675587	Aunt Dimity: Detective	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Stephen King, meet Agatha Christie	Mix Agatha Christie with Stephen King's good twin and you have the Aunt Dimity mystery series--now seven long--by Nancy Atherton.  Aunt Dimity is the most benign of ghosts who has left her fortune and a golden cottage in the Cotswalds to her best friend's daughter, Lori Shepherd. In this installment Lori investigates the murder of the village busybody who has created doubt and fear among the eccentric villagers through her malicious gossip mongering.<br />Assisted by Aunt Dimity, who communicates through elegant copperplate manuscript in a slender blue notebook, Lori eventually uncovers the murderer, and as importantly, is able to, barely, resist her feelings for a man certainly not her husband. This series is frothy and light, all the while acknowledging the sexual side of the the major protagonists. (Agatha missed that trick as I recall!). <br />I'm a big, burly, slightly profane middle-aged man and I really like this series. You can start anywhere--I started with this one--but were you able to read them sequentially you'd have a better understanding of the characters as the author develops them over time. But wherever you are able to start, start!	2002-04-24
US	53085624	R8AJ8Z2TFHJ5I	0394756959	675515635	A Bell for Adano	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Still Worthwhile Fifty+ Years Later	John Hersey would go on to win the Pulitzer Prize and become a prominent star in the pantheon of twentieth century writers. This book was written during World War II and was a best-seller when released in 1944. And it still resonates today. In short, it is the story of an American officer given civil responsibility for overseeing the coastal Italian town of Adano following its liberation by American forces. <br />How Major Victor Joppolo goes about this task is interesting as are the variety of Italians-former fascists and anti-fascists alike--he meets and, eventually, wins over. More gripping, though, is the character of Jappolo himself who, in many ways, Hersey repressents as Everyman--or at least EveryAmercicanman. He is practical, yet sentimental. He wants to do good, but also wants to be loved. He has a strong sense of loyalty, yet hungers after an Italian woman despite loving his wife back home. He admires the Italians, but shapes them in our American mold. He is--in modern psychobabble--conflicted; imperfect, yet very admirable.<br />The title refers to the city's most prominent--it has dozens of them--bell which for seven hundred years called the people to work, to eat, to love, to church, to life. It was shipped away by the retreating Germans to be made into bullets at some northern foundry. Its lack leaves a gaping wound in the civic fabric. Joppolo, of course, gets the town a replacement bell. How he does it fills you with pride. His first hearing of its strong voice can break your heart. This is a worthwhile book both as a story and as a still provocative look at the American character.	2002-03-04
US	53085624	R2P9E3L9KHULTU	0375507248	633811695	Lazy B: Growing Up on a Cattle Ranch in the American Southwest	Books	5	41	44	N	N	From the Southwest to the Supreme Court	Despite her status as the first woman appointed to the Supreme Court and her background as a Stanford graduate and prominent lawyer, Sandra Day O'Connor was not--repeat NOT--a child of privilege. Granted her Daddy ran a cattle ranch spanning two states and she never really wanted for anything, but the childhood which she relates (with her co-author, brother Alan) in &quot;Lazy B&quot; was a most challenging, liberating, independence-building one indeed.<br />Her grandparents started this life and her parents took over--running a huge cattle ranch, raising three children and instilling traditional values of frugality, self-reliance and hard work. We learn about her dad, DA; her mom, MO; and several interesting, independent cowboys, among them Rastus, Jim Brister,  Bug Quinn and Claude Tipets. Just names in a review, these lonely, uneducated, but remarkable men take on real life--real cowboys in the twentieth century! Here's an example: Brister, to tame an unruly horse, wrestles it to the ground in a display of awesome strength--while sitting on its back!!<br />Sandra accompanies her dad on his treks around the huge ranch fixing windmills, rounding up cattle, fixing fences, and, in general, doing the work of the ranch. She is an important part in the running of the ranch. Her father barely acknwledges her when she is late delivering lunch to the men working far from the homestead--despte the fact that she has had to change a flat tire on the ancient truck with its frozen lugnuts all by herself.<br />The book stays focused on her childhood, her family and the ranch. We learn about her adult life, including her appointment to the Supreme Court in just a few pages. At first I was surprised at such a cursory treatment of such an important career. But in learning about her childhood upbringing on the Lazy B we really learn all about the adult Sandra Day O'Connor. This is an interesting read both as biography and as the evocation of a vanished time and place. I recommend ithighly.	2002-03-04
US	53085624	R1L7D93K61YXGC	0670030570	695313885	Pope John XXIII: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	16	23	N	N	The People's Pope	This is a wonderful biography of the pudgy man born to a poor peasant family who became, in his old age, the much-beloved (at least by the people) Pope John XXIII. I was a ten-year old Protestant boy when Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli ascended to the throne of St. Peter. I remember reading about him and his Vatican Council over the next five years and hearing my Catholic friends talk favorably about the new pope. Then in 1963 the pope died and a few months later the young American president was assassinated and the whole world changed (or at least it seemed--and seems--to me).<br />Thomas Cahill's addition to the Penguin Lives series of brief biographies is the best so far. Cahill's prose is easily read; his history flows smoothly. The book open with an account of the church's history and its long line of mostly undistinguished popes. Then Cahill focuses on the long life of Roncalli: his service in the Italian army during World War I; his rise to some significance in the church in Italy; then his unexpected posting to mostly Orthodox Bulgaria; and then to the plum job in sophisticated and free-thinking Paris. Somehow this widely varied experience combined with his native empathy for people and love of the soil to deliver a remarkably liberal and unfettered man to   the head of the Roman Catholic church for a brief, but monumental, five years. <br />Cahill concludes with a negative, almost searing, overview of Pope John's successors including a pretty nasty picture of Pope John Paul II who he thinks represents a weird, Polish kind of Catholcism. I can't comment on the fairness of that, but am encouraged that Cahill feels that the waters representing John's humanism and warmth run near the surface and will emerge again. Frankly, I hope so.	2002-02-11
US	53085624	R3E2GHLAB5QARS	0060196955	997926972	Patience & Fortitude: A Roving Chronicle of Book People, Book Places, and Book Culture	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Everything (Almost) You Needed to Know About Books,	Nicholas Basbanes has written the second of a projected trilogy about the love of his life: books. Following the wonderful &quot;A Gentle Madness&quot;, &quot;Patience and Fortitude&quot; (the names of the two stone lions flanking the entrance to New York Public Library) deals largely with the storage and retrieval of books from ancient times till today. It begins with the ancient world's great library in Alexandria where the entirety of Western knowledge was stored and ends with a plan to rebuild a modern library in Egypt's second largest city: Alexandria!<br />The first third of the book deals with his tour of the sites of ancient and medieval libraries. My favorite is the abbey at Monte Casino; but surely any bibliophile and traveler will soon be planning his/her next European trip around Basbanes' theme. The second third of the book deals with avid private collectors and booksellers. This is, really, a reprise of his first book. The folks detailed here suffer from his aforementioned gentle madness and, uniformally, see themselves as temporary custodians of the books they love and the cultures those books represent. <br />In the final portion of the book Basbanes discusses libraries of today and the many challenges they face. In San Francisco there was a wrongheaded pursuit of network access, ultrmodern communication and architectural showing-off when a new building was built for the city's library. This had the horrific result of  no room for the books. Thousands of volumes ended up in landfills before a few civic protestors drew attention to the disaster. At Harvard University, on the other hand, rather than destroy books they have built new, climactically controlled storage barns and maintain and grow their marvelous collection.<br />Dry stuff? Compared to Baldacci or King--sure. But, Basbanes is talking about the preservation of a culture and its artifacts. Pretty exciting, I'd say!	2002-02-04
US	53085624	R10CGXGY2J9SR6	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Only In Florida	Carl Hiaasen is a nut. He has an off-the-wall, how-does-he-think-of-that sense of humor that is often rather black. For example, Jack Tagger, the forty six year old hero of Hiaasen's latest \\"Basket Case\\", defends himself from a nightime house break-in by pulling a giant lizard out of the freezer and belting one of his attackers across the face, putting out his eye. Sick? Maybe, but--in context--hilarious.<br />Jack is a down-on-his-luck journalist relegated to the Siberia of obituary writing for having verbally accosted his newspaper's new  owner in a shareholder's meeting. The owner, intent on a 25% yearly return on his investment, has cut back on reporting staff and is milking the paper. While churning out obituaries, Jack has lost lady friends due to his constant fixation on celebrities who have died at his current age. Down on his luck, Jack siezes one last opportunity to return to the front page when he stumbles on the probable murder of faded rock star Jimmy Stoma formerly of Jimmy and the Slut Puppies.<br />The mystery is pretty obvious, but the sly dissection of modern America typified by Florida with its environmental depradations, overwhelmingly bad taste and capitalistic pusuit of the dollar is   scathinly brilliant. It is a thirty or more years from John MacDonald's Travis McGee to Carl Hiaasen's \\"Basket Case\\", but their readability and their insight into modern culture are very much the same. This is an excellent, and instructive, read.	2002-01-21
US	53085624	R13UYLQONB48CN	0375404481	204882178	Uncle Tungsten: Memories of a Chemical Boyhood	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Chemistry for the Scientifically Inept	&quot;Uncle Tungsten&quot; by Oliver Sacks is a memoir of a young life in and near London in the 1940's and of a brilliant child's mind growing love affair with chemistry. Now, I am a former English teacher whose one high school chemistry class is, blessedly, far in the past. I was ready to be fascinated by Sacks' recollection of life in London before, during and after WWII, but I planned to, at best, skim the chemistry chapters. But Sachs is such a fine writer that the whole book resonates with brilliance, good sense and humanity--even the chapters on chemistry!<br />Young Oliver Sacks sprang from a large, brilliant expatriate Jewish family which had found its way to London. Both his parents were physicians who opened the large, rambling house to Zionists--including his cousin eventually to be known as Israel's foreign minister Abba Eban. The chapters dealing with his family's history, his relocation--along with other children for safety reasons--during the Blitz to a dreadful boarding school in the Midlands, and his loneliness and alienation upon his eventual return are fascinating.<br />But even more compelling (and I can't believe I'm saying this) are the chapters which detail young Oliver's fascination with chemistry. His mothers especially fosters this budding interest. Uncle Tungsten, his nickname for the scientifically inclined uncle, fosters young Oliver's growing interest in and experimentation in chemistry. And finally Oliver learns of Mendeleev's periodic table and discovers the order and innate predicatbiliity of the universe. Even for me this was a brilliant chapter!<br />Oliver Sacks was not to become a chemist (he is a neurologist) but his young life as recounted in &quot;Uncle Tungsten&quot; is a fascinating one, from a different time and different place. It is not to be missed.	2002-01-21
US	53085624	R326D7NGFKIYSI	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Only In Florida	Carl Hiaasen is a nut. He has an off-the-wall, how-does-he-think-of-that sense of humor that is often rather black. For example, Jack Tagger, the forty six year old hero of Hiaasen's latest &quot;Basket Case&quot;, defends himself from a nightime house break-in by pulling a giant lizard out of the freezer and belting one of his attackers across the face, putting out his eye. Sick? Maybe, but--in context--hilarious.<br />Jack is a down-on-his-luck journalist relegated to the Siberia of obituary writing for having verbally accosted his newspaper's new  owner in a shareholder's meeting. The owner, intent on a 25% yearly return on his investment, has cut back on reporting staff and is milking the paper. While churning out obituaries, Jack has lost lady friends due to his constant fixation on celebrities who have died at his current age. Down on his luck, Jack siezes one last opportunity to return to the front page when he stumbles on the probable murder of faded rock star Jimmy Stoma formerly of Jimmy and the Slut Puppies.<br />The mystery is pretty obvious, but the sly dissection of modern America typified by Florida with its environmental depradations, overwhelmingly bad taste and capitalistic pusuit of the dollar is   scathinly brilliant. It is a thirty or more years from John MacDonald's Travis McGee to Carl Hiaasen's &quot;Basket Case&quot;, but their readability and their insight into modern culture are very much the same. This is an excellent, and instructive, read.	2002-01-21
US	53085624	R342KHI0ZCALX5	0060199865	849303169	Cultivating Delight: A Natural History of My Garden	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Peace, Humor and Delight in the Garden	Poet and naturalist Diane Ackerman loves her garden. It must be a fairly untidy, eclectic garden as she enjoys many weeds, welcomes deer and generally works hard to let nature have its way. Running through the span of seasons, this wonderful book allows many discursive, delightful riffs on such topics as John Muir, tagging squirels, the passing of time, moon and bird  watching, and sick houses. It would be a great fun to spend time with her: deadheading asters, learning the different scents of her 100+ roses, and flowering arranging every spring and summer morning. But failing that opportunity, spending time with this garden book that's not a garden book, poem that is not a poem, essay on natural history that's certainly not an essay is almost as fun!	2001-12-31
US	53085624	R13NMN2KI9C6SB	0670886696	802733832	Mao Zedong: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Two Hours After Finishing This Book...	Jonathan Spence is as knowledgeable a writer and scholar of modern China as one can find. Like all bios in the Penguin Lives series this one of Mao is short and hits but the highlights of this history-changing leader's life. Spence presents the highlights of Mao's life: his rural background, the long struggle to find a place and a way to oppose the old regime, the many wives and children, the incredibly difficult opposition to the Japanese and the Nationalists during WWII and the long, rather disastrous reign as China's leader. <br />But we are given--of necessity--just a taste of a life. Spence is a biographer and a historian, not a poet. And perhaps a poet is needed here. For me, this was a good, solid introduction to Mao. What I need is a fuller, more fleshed out biography wherein the subject comes to life, where his life feels real and one can really get inside his head to try and understand what made this marvelous, monstrous man tick. But, this is a good first taste.	2001-12-26
US	53085624	R32GXWOZAXSMF	0760725594	136197598	Making the List: A Cultural History of the American Bestseller, 1900-1999	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Wonderful, Cultural Insight	Michael Korda, editor in chief of Simon and Schuster, has collected lists of the bestselling books (fiction and non-fiction) for the entire 20th Century. He writes an essay leading into each decade's lists. His primary observation is that Americans read the same basic books over and over. For example, historical fiction dealing with the Civil War appears on the list via Winston Churchill (a Southern author, not the great British leader)  in &quot;The Crisis&quot; in 1901; Margaret Mitchell, of course, made the list in 1936 and 1937 with &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot;; and in 1997, Charles Frazier's &quot;Cold Mountain&quot; rose to #2. Romantic novels, medical-themed novels, spiritually-themed novels, bodice-ripping novels (more and more explicit as the century advanced) all make continual reappearances. Books sell more and more despite the coming of the radio, then of movies, then of television, and then of the computer and the internet. <br />It is great fun for a reader to peruse the lists, remembering books read and books-meant-to-be-read. I was born in 1948 so the books and authors from the second half of the century are pretty familiar. For no good reason I've decided to read the nine bestsellers from my birthyear that I hadn't read. (Mailer's &quot;The Naked and the Dead&quot; is easily the most prominent and I read it several years ago.) It will take some looking to find them, much less read them; but, it seems a silly, provocative task to undertake. <br />Every reader will get something different from &quot;Making the List&quot; and therin lies the fun!	2001-12-26
US	53085624	R2MSDZ60FC15D9	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Bah, humbug!	In his second consecutive departure from his wildly successful legal thrillers (following &quot;A Painted House&quot;, a really good book!) John Grisham presents a modern Christmas fable in &quot;Skipping Christmas&quot;. With their only child away from home in the Peace Corps, Luther and Nora Krank, actually mostly Luther--Nora follows along weakly--decide to forego the usual round of Christmas parties, cards, house decorating, shopping, cooking and general madcap whirl to take a Caribbean cruise. This creates a little (very!) admiration, some envy and a lot of anger among their co-workers, friends and neighbors. I must admit some curmudgeonly sympathy with the Kranks in their attempt to go a different direction. But what Grisham intends, I think, to be a light, funny reminder of the important themes underlying our too commercialized holidays, becomes, for me, off-putting. The neighbors with their anger over Luther's refusal to put up a snowman on his roof, are way too serious a reminder of suburban conformity run amuck to be truly funny. There is a Jim Carrey movie waiting to be born here: funny, slapsticky and rather mean. I don't think that is what Grisham intended.	2001-12-09
US	53085624	R1R045LPMSVPCH	0393010465	73699063	Fire	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hairy-Chested Machismo	The &quot;Perfect Storm&quot; was such a powerful, compelling read that Sebastian Junger's fans are probably a little disappointed with his next effort, &quot;Fire&quot; a compilation of previously published essays written throughout the nineties. But that disappointment aside, there are some real gems here. Junger puts himself in harm 's way to tell a good story. Whether joining a fire fighting crew in the Rockies, being dropped in Kosovo's Valley of Death, dodging drug-crazed and armed teenagers in Sierra Leone, or interviewing a rebel leader in pre-September 11 Afghanistan, Junger searches out the off-beat, but important story. And yet my favorite of the essays is the quietest: an examination of how the Greeks and Turks in divided Cyprus have, unwittingly and unwillingly, reached a sort of peace that may last. For all his chest-thumping, Junger is a thoughtful and talented writer. Though I, too, await a hoped-for longer treatment of some theme or event, these essays are a very satisfying interlude.	2001-12-09
US	53085624	R1VWDKG14TSPHB	0940322927	734720520	Sacagawea's Nickname: Essays on the American West	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Novelist, Bookseller, Essayist	We all know Larry McMurtry best as fine, and successful, novelist whose work revolves around and in the American West. Perhaps he no longer has the stamina or time for fiction as he seems to have turned  more and more to the essay form. &quot;Sacagawea's Nickname&quot; is a collection of twelve essays originally published in the most non-Western The New York Review of Books. The irony of their original appearance aside, these are simply wonderful essays. In one essay McMurty declares &quot;The Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition&quot; (available in a newly published edition) to be the American Epic. In a companion piece he speculates about the expedition's guide Sacagewea's place in the company, wonders about her relationship with William Clark and laughs at her bumbling husband Charbonneau. In another essay he heaps scorn upon the pulp Western writers Zane Grey and Max Brand, while in another he waxes ecstatically upon a dinner with writer and poetess Janet Lewis. Whether writing about Western water issues and John Wesley Powell or about the professional anthropologists who tried to make their name off the Zuni tribe, McMurtry is always fascinating, provocative and highly readable. He, himself, is a Western treasure.	2001-12-08
US	53085624	R3URHUNBH813UG	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Brilliant Biography	Edmund Morris has returned to his Puliter Prize winning form, following the odd career detour which resulted in the controversial Reagan biography &quot;Dutch&quot;, in the second volume of his Theodore Roosevelt trilogy &quot;Theodore Rex&quot;. It begins with a wonderfully written prologue which follows Roosevelt's journey in a buckboard through the Adirondacks to a train station from whence he travels to Buffalo to the dead president William McKinley and then on to Washington accompanying McKinley's body.    In this prologue we see the vital new president keeping himself tightly in control (a hard, hard thing for him to do!) while observing the slices of America afforded him from the train's windows: great poverty in coal mining country, tradition and grace in small towns, and the bustling vitality of a new century in the booming cities. The biography focuses solely on Roosevelt's seven years as President and shines with its subject's vitality and energy. Roosevelt was a fascinating man presiding in a challenging time of change and growth. He pushed through the legislation for the Panama Canal, mediated the Russo-Japanese War with its ominous promise of much of the Century's later tragedy, sent out The Great White Fleet to assert America's might and ambition, and fought the great trusts which were dominating the economy. I've always thought that really good biographies read like novels--McCullough's Truman for example--and &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; proves the point. This is a delightful read with much to teach us about America as she was almost 100 years ago and about the ability of a good, dynamic, very human man to lead her. I highly recommend this work.	2001-12-08
US	53085624	R20LX96PJRO1H6	0743224914	868849101	Christmas in Plains: Memories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Holiday Memories from the 39th President	In the short &quot;Christmas in Plains&quot; Jimmy Carter shares mermories from a lifetime of very disparate Christmases. He remembers childhood holidays in rural Georgia where his young African-American neighbors might get an orange and some raisins. He recalls the four Christmases he spent as President. A very religious and family-oriented man, Carter has alsways treasured the birth of Christ as one of the highlights of his year. Easily read in one night this is a charming little book. To better understand this complicated and important man, a fuller read is last year's &quot;An Hour Before Daylight&quot; which is a more thorough memoir of his childhood years. But &quot;Christmas in Plains&quot; stands on its own: a charming, sometimes heartwarming account of a good man and his 70+ Christmases. This deserves to become a minor holiday classic--unlike, say, Grisham's new &quot;Skipping Christmas&quot;.	2001-12-01
US	53085624	R2BV61XOAF9AQE	0060199415	264162699	Someone to Watch Over Me (Grace & Favor Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Depression (Not Depressing!) Mystery	Jill Churchill's third novel in her Grace and Favor mystery series is &quot;Someone to Watch Over Me&quot;. Her protagonists, formerly wealthy (and pretty worthless) siblings Robert and Lily Brewster, continue to find that they can struggle with their new poverty and do good deeds. Most good mystery writers excel at portraying a very specific time and place: Agatha Christie and her English villages following WWI; Raymond Chandler and L.A. in the forties and fifties, Ellis Peters and medieval England. This series is located in the Hudson River Valley just up from NYC following the Crash. Churchill does a wonderful job of capturing the place--rather easy I think--and the time, a much more difficult challenge. Two bodies, the Veteran's Bonus March in Washington, D.C. and a possible romance brewing between the small town newspaper editor and an abandoned young wife and mother all make for the best in the series yet. Churchill's mysteries, especially in this fresh new series, are light, sufficiently challenging and fun to read. She's a good one!	2001-12-01
US	53085624	R1PMCTZJ5MST46	1890623016	803123860	The Young Carthaginian	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Historical Fiction from a Very Different Time	G.A. Henty was a Victorian gentleman who wrote historical fiction for young people. I learned of him in reading Arthur Schlesinger's autobiography &quot;A Life in the Twentieth Century&quot;. Schlesinger credits Henty with awakening an interst in history that was to last a lifetime. I see why. Henty's approach is to imagine a young lad and thrust him into interesting historical periods. The young man possessed of courage, pluck, honesty and compassion finds these attributes necessary to his success in the novel. Much like the Horatio Alger novels of a somewhat later American time, Henty was also conciously teaching the manly virtues. In &quot;The Young Cathaginian&quot; Henty pulls off a slick trick. Our young hero Malchus is a relative of Hannibal the great Cartaginian general who dared to cross the Alps to attack Carthage's great rival, Rome. While Henty admires Hannibal and presents Malchus as virtually flawless, it is clear that Carthage was a corrupt entity and that her deserved defeat was crucial to the growth of Western civilization. This is not a dry history, merely laden with moral overlays. It is also good fun. There is a lion hunt in Africa. A wolf hunt in the Spanish mountains. Escapes through the underground reserviors of Carthage. And countless vivid battles. And a charming little romance. I am glad I stumbled across the Henty output. Sclesinger is right: Henty makes history fun!	2001-12-01
US	53085624	R3TCW2ZODEFD7	0525945814	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Beating the Jinx	In baseball a fabulous rookie season is usually followed by a mediocre sophomore outing. This common phenomenon is called the Sophomore Jinx. Tracy Chevalier, following her wonderful &quot;Girl with a Pearl Earring&quot;, flirts with, but finally avoids, the sophomore jinx. &quot;Falling Angels&quot; opens with the death of old Queen Victoria and ends with the death of her son King Edward nine years later. She studies two neighboring families; one comes from the borders of the upper class with slightly disappated attitudes, while the other is decidely middle class with traditional values. Each family has a daughter and it is their friendship which provides the locus for the book. Much of the book is set admidst the gravesites, monuments and stone angels of the neighborhood cemetary where the girls strike up a friendship with Simon, son a drunken gravedigger. The examination of the familyies' relationships, values, servants and attempts to cope with a rapidly changing society provide much of interest. In a recent interview Chevalier talked about being &quot;stuck&quot; and unable to finish this book until she determined to tell it from multiple points of view. The device is indeed interesting and makes this a quick read, but I wonder if all the voices will sound virtually the same to you as they did to me. This quibble aside, I think Tracy Chevalier promises to be one of our better new writers and I do recommend &quot;Falling Angels&quot;	2001-10-28
US	53085624	R2RSTQRK5O88Y1	0375756493	39692854	The Fun of It: Stories from The Talk of the Town (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Start Spreading the News	This is a wonderful book. A compilation of pieces from The Talk of the Town section of The New Yorker spanning nine (!) decades, this is a social history of our nation and of New York. The Fun of It sat forgotten on my shelf for a few months, but I noticed it after the WTC disaster and began reading. What wonderful therapy. Some stories are poignant, others informative, still others laugh-out-loud hilarious. But all are elegant, first class writing. A great book for the bedside or bathroom, it can be dipped into at random and enjoyed for a few minutes or a few hours. Do yourself a favor: read it.	2001-10-25
US	53085624	R3M0DHSXYCWSBX	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	So You Thought You Couldn't Care About a Longbow...	With The Archer's Tale, Bernard Cornwell has started a new series. Set in the fourteenth century on the eve of the Hundred Year's War, this one features Thomas of Hookton the sole survivor of a French raid on a poor, south England fishing village. In the prologue we meet Thomas, see his father--a priest--murdered, watch him kill his first Frenchmen with an arrow from his longbow, wonder why the raid has focused on retrieving an old lance--supposedly St. George's, learn that there is a mystery about his birth abd watch with him as a pretty young maid --probably carrying his child--is taken away by the raiders. All that in the first twenty pages! Cornwell, of course, is a master of historical fiction. And he is at the top of his game here. Using the typical device of placing ordinary men in extraordinary historical settings, Cornwell teaches us much about medieval life, towns and warfare. The book culminates with the great battle at Crecy--a battle which had been at the edges of my understanding for decades. As the story end, Thomas, callow no more, is called on to greater deeds--a quest for the Holy Grail no less! Hurry up publisher, get the next volume out ASAP. 'Tis great fun!	2001-10-25
US	53085624	R20N5J6MTYE3ZZ	1557042721	529175826	Houseboat on the Seine: A Memoir	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Yo Ho Ho	William Wharton, American expatriate in France, author and artist, determines to live in a houseboat on the Seine. It promptly sinks. The book recounts the refloating, repositioning and refurbishing of this old tub. Somehow, he does it with the help of friends and a very bright, very practical teenaged friend. As I can barely find my way around a hardware store--and care less--I didn't appreciate the cleverness of the rehab, but I did enjoy the people and the stories abounding in the countryside. Wharton, of course, succeeds. He may be a moderately annoying expat, but he writes an interesting book.	2001-10-22
US	53085624	RA0IXS27OWZBD	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Whom Do You Trust?	This fast-paced, often compelling novel sets up the age old conflict between religion and science. Using the controversy between Galileo and the Roman Catholic Church as its overarching theme. Dan Brown in Angels and Demons teaches us much about the Illuminati, the Masons, anti-matter, the geography of modern--and ancient--Rome,ambigrams, and Vatican conclaves. Despite the inherent implausability of some of its elements the plot careens along; it certainly swept me up. This is not great literature, but for Robert Ludlum or David Baldacci fgans who appreciate a good story well told, this is a keeper! The twist, double twist at the end caught me off guard. And despite my initial disappointment I thought the ending to be just about right!	2001-10-21
US	53085624	R2SXFNPGEAK6P9	0786708441	823253654	The Devil's Oasis: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Third in a Great African Series	Bartle Bull is a great storyteller. The characters we first met in The White Rhino Hotel and further enjoyed in A Cafe on the Nile are back. The setting is now Cairo and Northern Africa as the Nazi juggernaut (in the person of the surprisingly admirable Rommel and his Afrika Corps) prepares to capture Cairo, to thereby control the Middle Eastern oilfields, and to gain an unsurmountable advantage in winning the war. Anton Rider, now older and more battered; Gwen, his estranged wife now in a liaison with another despicable cad; Wellington, their older son, discovering love and heroism for the first time; and, always, the enigmatic Goan dwarf, Olivio Alavedo are all back to further work out their lives in this grand historic context. As always, the reader cares about the characters, is caught up in the fast-paced plot and is swept up in a powerful narrative. If you like adventure and care about good writing, read this series!	2001-10-21
US	53085624	R2UTOAJ5EEG37C	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Greatest Poet: His Life	Several years ago I read The Divine Comedy. I've had some sense that Dante was a poet whose influence has rippled through the centuries. I'd even seen The prime of Miss Jean Brodie and the great scene where her class stares at Maggie Smith as she is lost in romantic musings about Dante and his Beatrice. But now, having read R.W.B. Lewis' Dante, part of the wonderful series Penguin Lives, I finally know something about the poet himself. Under the author's tutelage I was transported to 14th century Florence--its feuds and political upheavals--and the wonderful Dante soon to be exiled for life. This short, loving biography is a great filler-in of missing history and incomplete understandings. I recommend it to all serious readers of literature.	2001-10-21
US	53085624	R31F9WVVHTMQVQ	0684871726	373279179	City of Dreams: A Novel of Nieuw Amsterdam and Early Manhattan	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Just the Book to Read Now	What an irony that this book arrives in bookstores just days after the terrorist attack on Manhattan. To use the author's title, what began as a City of Dreams in the 1600's must continue in that same vein over 350 years later. This is very good historical fiction focusing on two families of physicians, apothecaries and surgeons who first land in Nieuw Amsterdam in 1661. The characters are compelling (and the women are every bit as strong and striking as the men), the history is fascinating, the plot fast-paced and the insight into medicine of the day frightening. Early looks at breast cancer surgery, bleeding, blood transfusions, amputations, all with no anesthesia other than a whole lot of rum, are sobering and make me wonder how our current &quot;modern&quot; techniques will look to our distant offspring 300+ years from now. But in the final analyis this book is about courage, foresight, hard work and love. Traits that will serve our current New Yorkers, and all the rest of us, very well. Read this book!	2001-10-04
US	53085624	R1O36DT9LB5274	0670030031	876796059	Lake Wobegon Summer 1956	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Once Too Often to the Well	First off: I think Garrison Keillor is a (minor) national treasure. That being said, this offering is his weakest to date. Advertised as a coming of age novel, it doesn't work for me. The characters are likable certainly, and the plot is mildly amusing; but, missing for me is the &quot;ah ha&quot; moment that I've found in his other books. I'm probably four or five years younger than the lead character (and grew up in a small California town as opposed to Lake Woebegone), but my &quot;coming of age&quot; memories are of the sixties with their concommitmant music, upbeat tempo and divisive social issues. Not the slow, turgid feel of this book. Maybe its just the difference of a few years, but I was disappointed.	2001-10-02
US	53085624	R1SA3T4374996B	0765300583	559329883	Louisiana Hotshot: A Talba Wallis Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Presto Chango	Julie Smith has done a neat switch in this novel: her heroine is Baroness Pontalba whom we met as a minor character in 82 Desire and her usual series protagonist, policewoman Skip Langdon, is a minor character here. But as always, Smith's real star is the city of New Orleans and she lovingly portrays it again-warts, decay and zest alike. The plot here is fast moving, the protagonist bold, the puzzle possessing of enough twists to be provocatove. I think Julie Smith is one of our best regional mystery writers and I recommend the whole series. If you haven't read the preceding books in the series you won't appreciate the neat sleight of hand she accomplishes here, but you'll still have a top notch reading adventure ahead ofyou!	2001-10-02
US	53085624	R3NUQU6OOBHAPI	0765300583	559329883	Louisiana Hotshot: A Talba Wallis Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Presto Chango	Julie Smith has done a neat switch in this novel: her heroine is Baroness Pontalba whom we met as a minor character in 82 Desire and her usual series protagonist, policewoman Skip Langdon, is a minor character here. But as always, Smith's real star is the city of New Orleans and she lovingly portrays it again-warts, decay and zest alike. The plot here is fast moving, the protagonist bold, the puzzle possessing of enough twists to be provocatove. I think Julie Smith is one of our best regional mystery writers and I recommend the whole series. If you haven't read the preceding books in the series you won't appreciate the neat sleight of hand she accomplishes here, but you'll still have a top notch reading adventure ahead ofyou!	2001-10-02
US	53085624	R8AFBBARJBKMS	0743403487	262834869	3: Paneb the Ardent (The Stone of Light, Volume III)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ancient Egypt Again	Christian Jacq, a French author read here in translation, is finishing his second series on Ancient Egypt. The first quintet about the Pharaoh Ramses is absolutely compelling and the second,  a quartet about the year following Ramses' death, is almost as grand. This is the third in that second series. What is generally missing in this second deries is a grand central figure; instead we have a brotherhood responsible for the building of the tombs of the pharaohs. But central to both is the landscape--real and figurative--of ancient Egypt. I find the ongoing glimpse of everyday life fascinating and convincing. The books could have been written by a Michener--there is much history contained but all within the confines of a compelling plot. The Place of Truth--the community of the aforementioned brotherhood--is under attack by malign forces wishing to seize power in the vaccuum following Ramses' death. The heroes are several of the leaders of that brotherhood. The sad twist at the very end sets up a potentially fabulous final volume. The series needs to be read in order-and preferably following the Ramses books--but it is easy and a delightful to digest.	2001-10-02
US	53085624	R1NQ33KYXL00UI	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Other Greatest Generation	Despite the revelation that the author of this Pulitzer Prize winning work lied about his own Vietnam involvement and the ensuing suspension from his teaching duties at Mt. Holyoke College, I enjoyed this book immensely. Easily read, this work reveals the very human jealousies and interactions of the Revolutionary generation: Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Madison, Hamilton and Burr. But Ellis also shows the greatness that emegerd from this odd and disparate group of men. The degrees of regard in which these men are held constantly shifts--currently Adams seems to be ascending while Jefferson is descending. And Ellis' insights will add to this ongoing debate.The chapter I most enjoyed dealt with Ben Franklin and his futile stand against slavery. This was brand new information to me.  This seems a good time to me, as we enter a protracted struggle against terrorism, to revisit the founding of our nation. These men had no idea how their struggles would end, but they persevered; much as we must now. May we have their courage and their eventual success.	2001-09-28
US	53085624	R3U3U2I9DTLWID	0393040836	216881861	Around America: A Tour of Our Magnificent Coastline	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sailing with Uncle Walter	I've long respected Walter Cronkite, loved history and geography, and been remarkably queasy about being out on a boat. Despite my fear of sailing, I truly enjoyed this book. Cronkite is, no surprise, a wonderful storyteller. As he meanders the upper and lower stretches of the Atlantic Seaboard, followed, more cursorily, by the Gulf and Pacific coasts, he tells stories about the history and geography of our coasts. In many ways, despite our vast interior stretches, America is an ocean country and Cronkite revels in sharing his insights and loves. Particularly poignant now, though unintentionally, are his discourses about Manhattan and the general New York City area. Although he but mentions the World Trade Center in passing, one can only imagine the changed skyline from a small boat and what Mr. Cronkite might say about that. All in all, a delightful tour of our magnificent coastline. And if you actualy enjoy sailing, this would have to be a perfect book!	2001-09-28
US	53085624	R33BBTE9DS27UV	0553277537	468229732	Dandelion Wine (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One of My Favorite Novels of All Time!	I read this novel by Ray Bradbury every decade or so--the first time as a college student during the Vietnam War. And every time, though my life situation has changed, I come away refreshed and revitalized by this oh so poetic little novel. Set in the summer of 1928 in a small town in Illinois, this book follows the episodic adventures of twelve year old Douglas Spaulding. He finds comfort in the rituals of life: the new tennis shoes which permit him to run faster and jump higher than ever before, the sound of the first lawn mowing (rotary not power!) of the summer, the daily bottling of dandelion wine capturing the essence of each and every summer day. But he finds sadnesses too: the retirement of the wonderful trolley and their replacement by noisy, smelly buses; the departure of his best friend John Huff; the appearance in town of The Lonely One, a murderous threat. This book captures much of the beauty of boyhood, and captures, too, the poignancy of growing up. An intersting book to read in parallel is Bradbury's Someting Wicked This Way Comes--a similar setting, with similar boys, but in autumn this time--a time when the days are shorter and evil can appear. Bradbury is a wonderful writer, and I'll read Dandelion several more times. And, I suspect, enjoying it every bit as much.	2001-09-28
US	53085624	RMYHYXCU0W2NN	039914787X	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	That's Entertainment	One admits to enjoying Clive Cussler with some trepidation. His plots are, after all, wildly improbable; his main character impossibly heroic; and his inclusion of himself in passing as a minor character, simply maddening. But I never fail to read him! As with Tom Clancy I enjoy the earlier novels more, probably because each author seems to feel the need to top himself each time out. Despite my fussing, I enjoyed this outing. The rescue early on of passengers from a sabotaged cruise ship is fascinating--and stands in implicit contrast to the real life Titanic disaster of an earlier century. And, most intriguing of all, is the plot twist in the last several pages which seemingly leads on to a whole new, and I think promising, way to continue the series. I confess: I'm hooked.	2001-09-28
US	53085624	R17XR3B3QHIV14	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Read this Book!	There was a wrong-headed review of this first novel today in the NY Times Book Review. Ignore it. This is a wonderful book set in the early 60's in rural Minnesota. Jeremiah Land, the father of three children and a man touched by God, is the hero of this book which is told through the eyes of his middle child, Reuben, then eleven years old. I am not particularly spiritual, but to enter fully intpo this book is to be swept up in marvelous writing and into a world where the northern plains and the miraculous, against all odds!, intersect beautifully and convincingly. Wonderful characterizations abound: Jape Waltzer, a horrid villain; Reuben's sister Swede, a tough little poetess; Roxanna, a late-appearing saint--the list goes on! Suspend disbelief and read this with an open heart.	2001-09-10
US	53085624	R3RT2WW9BK1PZB	0440225930	744602385	The Tidal Poole (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An Elizabethan Mystery	The second of a (so far) three volume mystery series, The Tidal Poole seems well researched with lots of details suggesting the Elizabethan era. But the characters including Good Queen Bess (a young GQB) are one dimensional and less than compelling. Although I like the subgenre of historical mysteries as a rule, this is one of the weaker series. The fault, I suppose, lies in Harper's portrayal of Elizabeth herself. Her temper, easily aroused passions, and inconsistent relationships with her key courtiers become off-putting and unbelievable. She must have watched the old Bette Davis movie a lot. Too bad. I really wanted to like this...	2001-08-26
US	53085624	R1VZ2VLD2H0DYS	0767903382	11518396	Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Fine, Funny Autobiography	The first of a (so far) two volume autobiography, Tender at the Bone is delightfully honest, poignant book. Burdened with a manic depressive mother, a distant German-born father and a roller coaster weight, young Ruth Reichl overcomes them all to find freedom, a vocation and herself. Ranging from New York City to a Montreal boarding school to Paris to Berkeley to Buffalo back to California, this easily read book captures the spirit and the atmosphere of each. Particularly enjoyable for me was Reichl's time in California in the early 70's. She captures the commune life with its political overtones (occasionally silly, I'll admit) and dumpster diving. I liked this book a lot--even though I'm a guy and a mediocre cook at best. If you are a boomer whose world has changed much or anybody who likes to cook, this is a book for you.	2001-08-26
US	53085624	R12G9D4ZMBEZEA	1887159150	469133358	Under Drake's Flag: A Tale of the Spanish Main	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Super Kid!	Subtitled &quot;A Tale of the Spanish Main&quot; this is an enjoyable book with lots of history easy to digest and learn. Ned Hearne - a brave, intelligent teen from Plymouth meets English privateer Francis Drake (not a &quot;Sir&quot; yet) and his adventures begin. Along with three friends (with each of whom he has an improbable, but stirring adventure) Ned takes along through the Elizabethan years and events leading up to the Spanish Armada and the subsequent fact of Britannia becoming the preeminent sea power. History can be fun!	2001-08-18
US	53085624	R2P18GX1BJQ6OF	0375406182	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good People	On the high plains east of Denver is the small, fictional, gray town of Holt, Colorado. Seemingly a small, dying agricultural town it would be easy to miss. But stop and spend a little time there. Yes, the streets are sparsely peopled and the farms lie a good distance from town, but real life is here: intense, tragic and redeeming. Two old bachelor farmers, a young pregnant teenager, a high school teacher deserted by his wife are among the folks who admidst loneliness begin to pull together and discover community, family and love. A truly beautiful, understated scene near the end of the book--the old farmer brothers at the birth of the teenager's little girl--is worth the whole read. The author's style--sparse and understated--captures the town and the people. Read it!	2001-08-18
US	53085624	R1J9E81IGYZRSS	0451203089	288083852	Sitka	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Give me a break!	Reading Louis L'Amour should be fun--not embarassing. This  book covers so much ground (in addition to Alaska we have a transcontinental sleigh rides across Siberia, sea voyages to China and a court appearance in Moscow) and is so improbable (a minor character from Virginia becomes a US senator from Mississippi who is the true catalyst of the Alaskan purchase (and what about the Civil War?)) that the usual L'Amour bravery, romance, and high drama--which is indeed here--is lost in the shuffle. What was he thinking?	2001-08-18
US	53085624	R2I7RAOVF0VIQ2	0375506179	287871634	Big Cherry Holler	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A Marriage in the Doldrums	Long time spinster Ave Maria Mulligan married Jack MacChesney in the far better novel Big Stone Gap. But, alas, the marriage has grown stale. Following the death of their second child the two find it increasingly difficut to communicate, or even to muster much concern for the other. The supporting cast of characters is so much more fun than the main characters that I have trouble mustering up much concern for Ave and Jack myself. The book comes alive when Ave and her daughter travel back to Italy-without Jack--to spend time with her family. Upon her return to Big Stone Gap she and Jack eventually effect a reconciliation. One hopes that it &quot;takes&quot; because another novel exploring their further marriage travails would be too, too much.	2001-08-18
US	53085624	R2EOEGNF495OPQ	0399147764	817772318	Oh, Waiter! One Order of Crow!: Inside the Strangest Presidential Election Finish in American History	Books	3	1	4	N	N	One Order of Tedium	CNN Political Analyst Jeff Greenfield's concluding thesis is that the public didn't much care who won the last presidential election thus its desire to have some conclusion-virtually any conclusion-before Inaguration Day. Unfortunately, in 300+ pages Greenfield gives the reader no new reason, no fresh insight to feel any differently now. Despite his unique vantage point as an election night analyst in this weirdest of elections, Greenfield has little new or interesting to offer beyond the commonplace the  Republicans so hated Clinton that they cared much more deeply about winning the Florida contest than the Democrats who were, at best, much embarrassed by the former president and anything but enamored by Gore's wooden, geeky persona. Although an easy read, One Order of Crow is hardly a compelling one.	2001-07-01
US	53085624	R2JCCGN3PIS9SD	0451175832	831620043	The White Rhino Hotel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Back to Africa	For the reader who gets lost in the beauty of Out of Africa, enjoys the adventure yarns of a Wilbur Smith and who yearns for a plot-drven page-turner, this is the rollicking good read. Peopled with compelling characters: Anton Rider, a gypsy boy who jumps ship in Dar es Salaam; Gwenn Llewelyn, a Welsh wife who travels to Kenya to meet her war-separated, badly wounded husband; Adam Penfold, an oh-so languid, but kindly English upper cruster captivated by Africa; and, Olivio Fonseca Alavedo, an evil-looking, always plotting, Goan dwarf. Mix these with some truly evil Europeans and a number of kindly natives (badly sterotyped, I'm afraid) and you'll find yourself engrossed in an old-fahioned adventure. This is the first of three (with surely more to come) in a series.	2001-06-30
