US	53095092	R3N1PYY3GQVDL5	0446692514	396332408	Feynman's Rainbow: A Search for Beauty in Physics and in Life	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Includes Gems of Feynman's Words in His Last Years	The reviewer also recommends: [[ASIN:0393316041 Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! (Adventures of a Curious Character)]].<br /><br />In the winter of 1981, Mlodinow became a post-doctoral fellow at Caltech, where two Nobel Prize winners, Richard Feynman and Murray Gell-Mann, had offices down the hall. The author wanted someone to help him emerge from his creative drought, and figured that it would be his idol Feynman. One day he knocked on the door to Feynman's office, and was welcome ... This is the story of the author's young days as well as Feynman, Gell-Mann and the world of the physical theory named string theory in its beginning.<br /><br />In an early chapter we learn that Feynman used to say there were two kinds of physicists, the Babylonians and the Greeks. The former focused on the phenomena, and the latter, on the underlying order. Gell-Mann was a Greek, and Feynman considered himself a Babylonian. Echoing this, the author understandably writes in a later chapter, \\"Feynman scorned string theory, Murray championed it. That was Feynman and Murray - attracted by each other's genius, repelled by each other's philosophy.\\"<br /><br />I have found the following gems of Feynman's words told to the author: \\"An important part of the creative process is play.\\" \\"The scientist's imagination always is different from a writer's in that it is checked.\\" \\"She (Arlene, Feynman's wife in his first marriage) taught me that one has to be irrational sometimes.\\" You might find some more you like in this book.<br /><br />In the last chapter the author thinks of Feynman in this way, \\"If there is one thing he taught me, it is the importance of being truly committed to whatever it is we are striving for.\\" This small and readable book would a good addition to the bookshelf of the fans of the People's Physicist Feynman. It is to be noted that \\"Some Time with Feynman\\" is not a different book by the same author but the European title of this book.	2004-06-14
US	53095092	R10TVF3TX640IW	0375412883	331182632	The Fabric of the Cosmos: Space, Time, and the Texture of Reality	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Highly instructive writing about space and time	The reviewer also recommends: [[ASIN:0307265633 The Hidden Reality: Parallel Universes and the Deep Laws of the Cosmos]].<br /><br />Before buying a newly published book, I almost always read reviews on it. However, I bought this book as soon as it was published without following the usual procedure, because the previous book by the same author, \\"The Elegant Universe,\\" proved Brian Greene's high ability of clear writing on cutting-edge physics. This new book even exceeded my expectation.<br /><br />Greene, who made a number of important discoveries in superstring theory, explains about the present understanding of space and time starting from historical ideas from Newton's days and reaching the possible experimental confirmation of extra dimensions predicted by theoretical models as well as future allusions. The book is written for laypersons without using equations in the main text, but includes about 40 pages of notes for the expert reader. Thus scientists and engineers can also enjoy it very much.<br /><br />The author makes good use of analogies, among which I liked the one about Bell's inequality best. Expert readers may find explanations in earlier chapters a little too lengthy, but this book has the following instructive feature: Greene's explanation often made me have a small question, but on reading ahead, I found that the author had expected the same question and had given the answer to it in the text or in a note! I believe that many of the young readers of this book would be interested in becoming a physicist or a cosmologist to study the deep mysteries of space and time.	2004-05-07
US	53095092	R1DFA4SZLLFP7E	0691114773	835564493	Our Cosmic Habitat	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Deep Mysteries of the Cosmos Simply Told	The reviewer also recommends [[ASIN:0691114773 Our Cosmic Habitat]].<br /><br />Martin Rees, Astronomer Royal of Great Britain, wonderfully tells everything about cosmology in this concise book. The reader is lead to a quick tour from Big Bang to biospheres, from the beginning to the end of the universe, and from the micro-world to the cosmos. Yet the description is not superficial but very deep.<br /><br />Among many of mysteries we learn from this book, let me mention only a few big ones. (1) Dark matter: This prevails over visible matter in constituting the total energy of the universe. It is the No. 1 problem in astronomy today, and ranks high as a physics problem, too. (2) Vacuum energy: This is the origin of the accelerating expansion of the universe. Its nature is a challenge to theorists; it holds important clues to the early universe and the nature of space. (3) Other universes: Our universe may be just one of them. While seeming to be in the province of metaphysics rather than physics, these already lie within the proper purview of science.<br /><br />The author says that the phrases often used in popular books, \\"final theory\\" and \\"theory of everything,\\" are very misleading and that some of nature's complexity may never be explained and understood. These words just made the scales fall from my eyes. I strongly recommend this book to laypersons interested in astronomy, cosmology, problems at the boundary between science and philosophy, and the deep mysteries of nature.	2003-12-23
US	53095092	R1JLJ9HWMXYT5F	1568582323	345670700	Entanglement: The Greatest Mystery in Physics	Books	3	17	17	N	N	The Quantum Reality Einstein Could Not Suppose	In 1935 Einstein, Rosen and Podolsky raised a serious criticism of quantum theory in the form of a paradox. The criticism meant that quantum theory brings about a &quot;spooky action at distance&quot; or &quot;entanglement&quot; between quantum subsystems. Two photons generated at a point with a correlation, for example, continue to have the correlation even after they are separated by a great distance, and a change in the state of one of them affects the other instantaneously. In 1964 John Bell proposed a mathematical theorem experimentally to test the existence of entanglement. Alain Aspect carried out such an experiment in 1982 to show that entanglement is a reality.<br />Even one of the greatest physicists in history, Albert Einstein, could not suppose that entanglement would be a reality. So it must be quite difficult to make ordinary person understand it. Amir Aczel tried to do this difficult task in this book, but he does not seem to have well succeeded. Just half of a total of 20 chapters is spent to describe the history of quantum mechanics, though a short mention about entanglement appears at a few places. Thus the reader who learned quantum mechanics to some extent at least would find the first half of the book rather tedious. From the story of debate between Einstein and Bohr in chapter 11, the book becomes interesting. However, the author explains neither Bell's theorem nor the details of many experiments understandably. On the final page, the author reveals the reason of difficulty in understanding entanglement writing, &quot;... the quantum theory does not tell us why things happen the way they do; why are the particles entangled?&quot; Was our expectation to the author too big?<br />A good point of the book is that it includes biographical descriptions of a lot of physicists related to quantum theory and entanglement. I have learned for the first time that Thomas Young, famous for the double slit experiment, was a child prodigy. Schr&ouml;dinger's anecdotal &quot;entanglement&quot; with women are also told. A bad point is that writing and printing are made rather carelessly. For example, von Neumann's proof of the non-existence of hidden variable in quantum mechanics and John Bell's later challenge to Neumann's assumption are repeatedly described on pages 101 and 102. There are many typos, and especially the contents of pages 234 and 235 should be interchanged. This error, combined with sudden appearance of the description of Borromean rings on page 232, makes the reader confused around these pages.tal &quot;entanglement&quot; with women are also told. A bad point is that writing and printing are made rather carelessly. For example, von Neumann's proof of the non-existence of hidden variable in quantum mechanics and John Bell's later challenge to Neumann's assumption are repeatedly described on pages 101 and 102. There are many typos, and especially the contents of pages 234 and 235 should be interchanged. This error, combined with sudden appearance of the description of Borromean rings on page 232, makes the reader confused around these pages.	2003-11-02
US	53095092	R3EGMNUMKVRET9	0080264999	629584598	Physics & Astrophysics: A Selection Of Key Problems (Pergamon International Library of Science, Technology, Engin)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Wide and Deep View in a Slim Volume	In this small book the author attempted to answer a question, &quot;What seems to be most important and interesting in physics and astrophysics at present?&quot; The &quot;present&quot; of the latest edition of this book is the first half of the 1980s. As the author writes in &quot;Preface to the English Edition,&quot; the effective lifetime of each edition of the book of this type is not long. Because of the scarcity of books of this kind, however, the author's style and method of getting and presenting an overall view of the situation in physics as a whole continue to be heuristic even after many years since the publication of this book.<br />The book consists of three chapters on macrophysics, microphysics and astrophysics. Each chapter has seven to nine sections that deeply treat specific problems. It would be a good exercise for students and researchers to write by themselves about the later developments of the problem they are interested in or to give a list of other important problems they can think of. -- The author, V. L. Ginzburg, shared the 2003 Noble Prize in Physics with two low-temperature theorists. --	2003-10-10
US	53095092	R183WR0340FE2A	0192192051	878135319	The Problems of Physics (OPUS books The Problems of Science Series)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Wonderful Insight of a Nobel-Prize Winner	The first edition of this book was published in 1988, and this second edition appeared after six years. So, it may be time for the author to publish another new edition. I suppose however that most of the problems described in this edition remain to be challenging and that the book is still worth reading even in the early years of the 21st century, because the author treated the problems of the kind related to deep mysteries of nature. I read this book with great interest and learned much.<br />The author, Anthony J. Leggett, shared the 2003 Nobel Prize in Physics with two low-temperature theorists. Thus this book is also good to learn how wonderful insight one of Nobel-Physics-Prize winners has not only into the field of his specialty but also into all the fields of physics.	2003-10-09
US	53095092	R3C15HPE6DPYST	0691058628	119485578	The Extravagant Universe: Exploding Stars, Dark Energy, and the Accelerating Cosmos (Princeton Science Library)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Absorbing Narrative about Astounding Discovery	Most cosmologists long believed that the universe would expand at a decelerating rate. Contrary to this belief, two teams of astronomers independently announced in 1998 the observational results that indicated the accelerating expansion of the universe since about 5 billion years ago. One of the two teams was called the Supernova Cosmology Project and led by Saul Perlmutter of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, and the other was the High-z Supernova Team led by Brian Schmidt of Mount Stromlo and Siding Springs Observatories in Australia and the author of this book, Robert Kirshner of Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.<br />Before reading this book I already learned much about this astounding finding from the following books: Amir D. Aczel, &quot;God's Equation&quot; (1999); Donald Goldsmith, &quot;The Runaway Universe (2000); and Mario Livio, &quot;The Accelerating Universe&quot; (2000). The person who read one or more of these books like me might think the earlier chapters of &quot;The Extravagant Universe&quot; not so attractively written. As distinct from the other authors, however, Kirshner includes some passages useful to students and young scientists. For example, he writes in chapter 4, &quot;You don't always have to understand the details of the mathematics to contribute to the advance of science&quot;; and in chapter 6 he heuristically discusses various possible sources of observational errors.<br />From chapter 9 on, the narrative becomes quite absorbing. We get such high excitement of the intellectual work leading to the discovery that can be conveyed only by the person who actually engaged in it. It is wonderful that mankind can learn something about the fate of the universe, though we do not yet know what dark energy, i.e., the source of acceleration, really is.<br />I like the last pages of this book, on which the author describes why cosmology is important to us. Decision makers of science policy should read these pages at least. All the readers who are interested in the wonders of nature and the universe will surely be interested in this book. Vividly describing scientists' life filled with collaboration, competition, annoyance, confidence, etc., this is a good book especially for young people.least. All the readers who are interested in the wonders of nature and the universe will surely be interested in this book. Vividly describing scientists' life filled with collaboration, competition, annoyance, confidence, etc., this is a good book especially for young people.	2003-09-18
US	53095092	RDD5U2KPNTLSM	0521893097	105063293	Antimatter: The Ultimate Mirror	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Science Is Approaching Science Fictions	Antimatter often appears in science fictions. In Gregory Benford's \\"Eater,\\" for example, a robot made by magnetic copying of the heroine flies to the black hole Eater on a spaceship, carrying an antimatter bomb to change the course of Eater and to prevent its collision with the Earth. In reality, antimatter does not exist naturally on the Earth. Nor has it ever been made in a large quantity in the laboratory.<br />In 1996 Walter Oelert and coworkers at the European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN) in Geneva produced antihydrogen atoms, the first-step thing towards antimatter. Gordon Fraser's \\"Antimatter\\" describes the history of physics about the mirror world, in which antimatter has one of the deepest mysteries. First the success of Oelert's team is shortly described. Then the story starts from Galileo Galilei's work and comes to that of Oelert's team again through Paul Dirac's theoretical prediction of the existence of antiparticles and many discoveries by other physicists.<br />Fraser lucidly narrates to laypersons using neither technical jargons nor equations. A story about kaons in the chapter of \\"Broken mirrors\\" is possibly a little difficult to many readers, but this is a small flaw. Not only laypersons but also physicists can enjoy this book reading anecdotes of many great physicists and exciting episodes of finding antiparticles and producing antihydrogen atoms. In the last chapters the author describes the applications of antiparticles, the riddle of missing antimatter in the Universe and a program to search cosmic antimatter, concluding by the following words that might stimulate would-be scientists: \\"Our understanding of cosmology and the origin of the Universe would require a major rethink, a Copernican revolution for the twenty-first century.\\"<br />Antihydrogen atoms of Oelert's team were flying so speedily that they were of no use for measuring their physical nature. In 2002, however, the ATHENA collaboration at CERN reported the success in the production of many \\"cold\\" antihydrogen atoms that move very slowly. Though it is yet quite far from the production of a massive quantity of antimatter, science gradually approaches the science fiction. I wish that this book be revised in the near future by adding the latest advances in antimatter science and by correcting the error of the Japanese physicist Hantaro Nagaoka's first name (now it strangely reads \\"Hatari\\" on page 39) as well as a few typos.production of many \\"cold\\" antihydrogen atoms that move very slowly. Though it is yet quite far from the production of a massive quantity of antimatter, science gradually approaches the science fiction. I wish that this book be revised in the near future by adding the latest advances in antimatter science and by correcting the error of the Japanese physicist Hantaro Nagaoka's first name (now it strangely reads \\"Hatari\\" on page 39) as well as a few typos.	2003-04-30
US	53095092	R173MXOM43SZAV	0767908155	931225579	The Golden Ratio: The Story of Phi, the World's Most Astonishing Number	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Pursuing the Mysteries of the Ubiquitous Number Phi	Mario Livio, a cosmologist and art aficionado at the Hubble Space Telescope Center and the author of the previous book &quot;The Accelerating Universe,&quot; wrote a lot about the irrational (never-ending, never-repeating) number phi, or the Golden Ratio, whose value is 1.6180339877... The story starts from these questions: Who discovered the Golden Ratio? Was phi used in the design of a Babylonian stela and Egyptian pyramids? The author pursues the answers to these questions, writing a series of his thoughts like a detective story.<br />Then he describes the role of the Greek mathematicians Plato and Euclid, and the Italian mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci in the history of phi, together with the geometrical and arithmetical wonders connected to this number. One example of the wonders is the relation between the Fibonacci sequence and phi. The Fibonacci sequence 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, ... is defined as a series of numbers in which each term is the sum of the two preceding terms. The ratio of successive numbers of this sequence approaches phi as we go farther and farther down the sequence.<br />Next come the topics of phi found in nature and used in arts. The logarithmic spiral, which goes hand in hand with the Golden Radio, appears in the sunflower, the flight of a falcon, galaxies, etc. The author's study of many historical attempts to disclose the Golden Ratio in various works of art, pieces of music and poetry comes to the conclusion that ... (I have to refrain from writing the ending of the &quot;detective story&quot;).<br />In the final chapter Livio considers the question: What is the reason that mathematics and numerical constants like phi play such a central role in topics ranging from fundamental theories of the universe to the stock market? Noting that the discussion about this question can fill the entire volume, the author gives a brief (but very understandable) description of the modified Platonic view and the natural selection interpretation. He also presents his personal opinion, which adopts complementarity of the above two views. This chapter whets readers' appetite for a possible next book on this topic to be written by Livio.<br />I strongly recommend &quot;The Golden Ratio&quot; to scientists, artists and laypersons that are interested in the wonders of numbers and mathematics and in their relations to arts and nature.nts his personal opinion, which adopts complementarity of the above two views. This chapter whets readers' appetite for a possible next book on this topic to be written by Livio.<br />I strongly recommend &quot;The Golden Ratio&quot; to scientists, artists and laypersons that are interested in the wonders of numbers and mathematics and in their relations to arts and nature.	2003-03-31
US	53095092	R31FI6SFD6R137	0684851865	927078029	Boltzmanns Atom: The Great Debate That Launched A Revolution In Physics	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Still Reverberating Conflict	Ludwig Boltzmann (1844-1906) was an Austrian theoretical physicist and made important contributions to the kinetic theory of gases and thermodynamics. His work was based on the hypothesis of the existence of atoms, and was not accepted by the majority of scientists in those days. In the undergraduate physics course, our teacher told us that Boltzmann committed suicide. I wanted to know why he ended his life so sadly, but did not have a chance to learn about it for many years. David Lindley's book gave me a clear answer to my question and much more. I was intrigued by the story about the romance between Boltzmann, a youth &quot;whose energies and thoughts were rarely distracted from physics,&quot; and Henriette von Aigentler, a young student at a teacher training college.<br />The author gives a readable account not only of Boltzmann's life and work but also of work and philosophy of those scientists who opposed his theory, developed a similar theory, or confirmed his hypothesis, James Clerk Maxwell, Wilhelm Ostwald, Ernst Mach, Josiah Willard Gibbs, Max Planck and Albert Einstein among them. Thus readers can get good understanding about Boltzmann's depressive mood and the significance and greatness of his work. The conflict between Boltzmann's atomic hypothesis and Mach's philosophy that science should be based only on observable facts is discussed especially in detail in this book.<br />Lindley teaches us that a similar conflict also exists nowadays. Namely, he writes in Chapter 7, &quot;. . . now some physicists argue for the existence of superstrings and other curious entities that will never be seen directly. It remains, even now, a profound question whether the cost of proposing such very hypothetical objects as superstrings is sufficiently compensated by the benefit in understanding that the hypothesis brings.&quot; Here he insists the merit of Mach's critical attitude. In Postscript, however, the author stresses the legacy of Boltzmann's difficult victory over Mach in the modern idea of theoretical physics. Readers are thus made think by themselves about the merit and demerit of Mach's philosophy and physical hypotheses. The book would be interesting to both laypersons and working physicists.r Mach in the modern idea of theoretical physics. Readers are thus made think by themselves about the merit and demerit of Mach's philosophy and physical hypotheses. The book would be interesting to both laypersons and working physicists.	2002-11-24
US	53095092	R1FXMC0I7CFU77	067400647X	805302079	Facing Up: Science and Its Cultural Adversaries	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Essays Leading You to Deep Thinking	The author Steven Weinberg is the Nobel-prize winning theoretical physicist. In this book 23 essays written between 1985 and 2000 are collected. The dust cover of the book has a photo of the statue of the 16th century astronomer Tycho Brahe with a posture of facing up. The author writes in the preface that this is only part of the reason for his choice of &quot;Facing Up&quot; for the title of the book. The other part of the reason is described as follows: Each of the essays in this collection struggles with the necessity of facing up to the scientific discoveries that show the laws of nature are impersonal, with no hint of a divine plan or any special status for human being. Weinberg adds some words about his viewpoints: rationalist, reductionist, and so on. These aptly describe his personal philosophy underlying all the essays in this volume.<br />In a sense the reductionism or the physics imperialism is considered a defective thought these days. However, Weinberg's reductionism (called &quot;objective reductionism&quot; in chapter 2 and &quot;grand reductionism&quot; in chapter 10) means the notion: &quot;There are arrows of scientific explanation that converge to a common source at the level of the very small.&quot; He does not necessarily mean the constituents of the upper level structure by &quot;the very small.&quot; Nor does he deny the emergence of new concepts at higher levels of organization to understand the behavior at those levels. Thus I find myself comfortably agreeing with him about defending his reductionism. As for his criticism of social constructivism (chapter 9), I also hold an opinion similar to his.<br />On the other hand, Weinberg's attack on religions is so scathing (especially in chapters 20 and 22) that I cannot completely agree with him, though I do not believe in any religion. He looks only at the aspect of religions as the adversary of science on the basis of big historical events unhappy to religions. In spite of this disagreement, I find instructive expressions here and there in this book. For example, I like Weinberg's words, &quot;We will need to confirm and strengthen the vision of a rationally understandable world if we are to protect ourselves from the irrational tendencies that still beset humanity (chapter 12).&quot; To sum up, this book gives the reader a lot of knowledge and a chance of deep thinking about the significance of science, religion and philosophy.find instructive expressions here and there in this book. For example, I like Weinberg's words, &quot;We will need to confirm and strengthen the vision of a rationally understandable world if we are to protect ourselves from the irrational tendencies that still beset humanity (chapter 12).&quot; To sum up, this book gives the reader a lot of knowledge and a chance of deep thinking about the significance of science, religion and philosophy.	2002-10-05
US	53095092	R106BA2AEFHKOX	0743422996	9400276	The Mystery of the Aleph: Mathematics, the Kabbalah, and the Search for Infinity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	History of Infinity and Cantor's Life Well Told	Is infinity a number? Who invented or discovered infinity? Is one kind of infinity larger than the other? Is there anything yet unknown about infinity? If you have such questions, this is a good book for you.<br />Amir D. Aczel is a mathematician, and wrote the much acclaimed book \\"God's Equation: Einstein, Relativity and the Expanding Universe.\\" He produced here another interesting book by telling stories about the study of infinity. In the introductory chapter numbered aleph-0 the author writes briefly about the life of the mathematician Georg Cantor and his \\"continuum hypothesis\\" together with its equation using the Hebrew letter aleph. The symbol aleph with a subscript 0, 1, 2, etc., invented by Cantor, denotes the order or the different level of infinity.<br />In the following chapters Aczel describes the history of searching infinity. The story starts from its discovery by Greeks in the fifth or sixth century B.C. and includes the concept of infinity in the Kabbalah (a system of Jewish mystical philosophy), discoveries about the nature of infinity by Galileo and Bolzano, and studies by mathematicians in Berlin during the period from 1860 to the start of World War I. Next, the author explains about irrational numbers. Reading about these, the reader might almost forget about Cantor told at the beginning of the book.<br />After reading almost 40% of the text, however, the reader is brought back to the central story about Cantor. Cantor got strong opposition against his research from his former teacher Leopold Kronecker. This fact and the difficulty of proving his continuum hypothesis seem to have been responsible for Cantor's mental problems. The story of Kurt G&ouml;del, who further developed the work of Cantor, comes next, and the reader learns that G&ouml;del also got mental illness. The author writes in one of the endnotes that Cantor and G&ouml;del were not the only mathematicians working in the field of the foundations of mathematics to suffer from mental illness and that it is interesting to contemplate the reasons for this. Some readers might wish to read Aczel's another book on this contemplation in the near future.<br />In the final chapter we find an interesting question, \\"Do numbers actually exist?\\" The author writes the answer he believes to be the case, and gives a beautiful ending by citing the sentence from a commemorative plaque of Cantor in Halle. The sentence, Aczel thinks, captures Cantor's deepest conviction about mathematics.<br />Even the reader without much knowledge of mathematics can enjoy this book, if she or he is a little patient to read technical passages. In those passages the author understandably explains the proofs of some natures of infinity discovered by Cantor.that it is interesting to contemplate the reasons for this. Some readers might wish to read Aczel's another book on this contemplation in the near future.<br />In the final chapter we find an interesting question, \\"Do numbers actually exist?\\" The author writes the answer he believes to be the case, and gives a beautiful ending by citing the sentence from a commemorative plaque of Cantor in Halle. The sentence, Aczel thinks, captures Cantor's deepest conviction about mathematics.<br />Even the reader without much knowledge of mathematics can enjoy this book, if she or he is a little patient to read technical passages. In those passages the author understandably explains the proofs of some natures of infinity discovered by Cantor.	2002-08-24
US	53095092	R25QZ16PCRXU74	0465018602	295834703	Einstein, Picasso: Space, Time, and the Beauty That Causes Havoc	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Going over Boundaries between Disciplines	What factors can be motivations of a genius's reformative work? Is it possible that the same notions affect geniuses in science and art? What is the daily life of geniuses? What processes are going on when a genius does a monumental work? We often have such questions as above. Arthur I. Miller, Professor of History and Philosophy of Science at University College London, wrote a wonderful book to answer all of those questions and to tell us more about creative activity by the example of the two giants of the twentieth century, Albert Einstein and Pablo Picasso.<br />This dual biography centers on the special relativity theory discovered by Einstein in 1905 and the Cubism painting &quot;Les Demoiselles d'Avignon&quot; produced by Picasso in 1907. In the first chapter, the author mentions that Poincare's book &quot;La Science et l'hypothese&quot; gave a spur to both of the two geniuses and led them to explore new notions of space and time. Tracing their respective lives in later chapters, the author clarifies how both men sought representations of nature that transcend those of classical thought and reach beyond appearances. The reader would be convinced of the fact that the effect of Poincare's book is not a superficial similarity between the works of Einstein and Picasso but a common denominator deeply rooted in the culture and science of the early twentieth century.<br />In the last chapter the author insists that at the creative moment boundaries between disciplines dissolve. Namely, aesthetics becomes paramount also in science; on the other hand, artists solve problems just like scientists. So, if you are a scientist, you would find direct interest in the chapters on Einstein and also find it profitable to read the chapters on Picasso; and if you are an artist, the reverse would be true. Laypersons would also get a lot of stimuli to a productive life from this book.	2002-07-19
US	53095092	R1QR420X71NWRR	0060976926	149142118	Galatea 2.2: A Novel	Books	5	6	10	N	Y	A Highly Intelligent Novel about Artificial Intelligence	Before buying this book, I read a review of the Japanese edition of the book, and thought that even I, a non-native speaker of English, should be able to read its original English edition rather easily because of the following reasons: (1) The author Richard Powers studied physics before becoming a writer, and I am a physicist. (2) This is a scientific novel about artificial intelligence. In fact, this book has very rich contents more than computer-based neural networks, and full understanding requires much knowledge about Western literature. Thus it was rather tough for me to read through it. After finishing, however, I am quite satisfied with the struggle I had with this book.<br />The protagonist, named after the author, joins the project being undertaken by the cognitive neurologist Philip Lentz, and trains a series of neural networks, which are named Imp A, B, C, and so on (Imp is an abbreviation for Implementation). Their work place, the Center for the Study of Advanced Sciences, is located at U. Along with this story, Richard's love affair with his former student C. is told. They once lived together in B. They are however separated, and Richard is attracted to another young lady, A. Imp A, B, C, etc. are okay, but as for ladies C. and A. and places U. and B., what rough naming the author made in this work! But wait. This might be a technique to give the story much reality like a private note.<br />I have been training a female friend of mine to read and write in English only by exchanging e-mail messages written in English these several months. This limited method of training is in a sense quite similar to Richard's training of neural networks, and I have found many parallels between this novel and my experience. Even from this fact only, I can conclude that this book is well written. Imp H or Helen learned too much and finally . . . Oh, this is not what I want to happen to my pupil and me. I highly recommend this novel to all intelligent readers.	2002-04-29
US	53095092	R2CV3ECQ0VJVJA	0380790564	272354477	Eater	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Sci-Fi Story Especially Good for (Would-Be) Scientists	Gregory Benford, a professor of physics at the University of California, Irvine, provides an educational, rather than entertaining, sci-fi story. Actually, he writes in the afterword of this book, &quot;I have endeavored to show . . . how scientists do think, work, and confront the unknown.&quot; The present reviewer is a physicist. So he enjoyed how the physicist-writer well expresses scientists' thinking, working, and loving. However, the reader who is a sci-fi aficionado but a layperson of science might find the long descriptions of scientific discussion by the characters a little tedious or difficult to understand. The author also gives satirical descriptions of politics and politicians. Educational and satirical descriptions are elements not of sci-fi but of purely literary novels. Thus the author seems to be writing for a genre partly unsuitable for his talent.<br />The story begins when Benjamin Knowlton and his wife Channing, both working at an astronomical center in Hawaii, find a strange interstellar object. It is identified to be a black hole approaching Earth, and the name &quot;Eater&quot; proposed by Channing is adopted. The British astronomer Kingsley Dart joins the center. Channing, formerly a brilliant astronaut and now having a heavy cancer, and Kingsley feel an attractive force between themselves. The Eater has intelligence stored in its magnetic field, and sends messages to Earth, demanding its &quot;remnants.&quot; Channing makes up her mind to . . . You will like this book very much, if you are a romantic scientist or hope to be one.	2002-02-14
US	53095092	R3U6DKR4QI7LPJ	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Forefront of Theoretical Physics Told for Laypersons	Stephen Hawking occupies the Lucasian chair at the University of Cambridge, which was once held by Isaac Newton before its motorization as Hawking writes humorously. Hawking is also regarded as one of the most brilliant theoretical physicists since Albert Einstein. His previous book, &quot;A Brief History of Time,&quot; was sold an estimated 25 million copies world over, but was notorious for mostly not being read beyond the earliest chapters. &quot;The Universe in a Nutshell&quot; is a sequel to it, including many illustrations and telling in a more readable style about the major breakthroughs that have occurred in the field of theoretical physics after the release of the first book.<br />The author writes in the foreword that the structure of the book is like a tree, the first two chapters forming a central trunk from which the other chapters branch off. Thus, after reading two introductory chapters on the theory of relativity and &quot;the shape of time,&quot; the reader can jump to any of later five chapters on the development of the universe, black holes, the possibility or impossibility of time travel, our future, and the future journey of discovery.<br />Many scientists tried to avoid addressing a question about the beginning of the universe. In chapter 3, however, Hawking states the necessity of trying to understand it on the basis of science for the following reason: If the laws of science are suspended at the beginning of the universe, they might fail also at other times.<br />The universe is considered to have begun in a big bang, a point where the whole universe was scrunched up into a single point of infinite density. At this point Einstein's general theory of relativity cannot be used, because when the universe is small the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics is important. Therefore, we need a &quot;quantum theory of gravity,&quot; a unified theory of the general theory of relativity and the quantum mechanics, and this is the main subject of the book.<br />Hawking's own approach to the unified theory is to combine the general theory of relativity and Richard Feynman's idea of multiple histories. Many related concepts and theories, for example, holography, duality, p-branes, M-theory and superstring theory, are explained. Only in chapter 6, the story is rather close to our life, and here the author describes also excitingly how biological and electronic life will go on developing in complexity at an ever-increasing rate.<br />I highly recommend this book to laypersons. They will possibly get only a feeling of understanding, not understanding itself; but the book surely opens their eyes more or less about the principles of the universe already found and those on the way to be found. Physical scientists outside Hawking's field might get some frustrations, because advanced concepts at the forefront of research are not conveyed well enough by the everyday language without the aid of the mathematical language suitable for physics.book.<br />Hawking's own approach to the unified theory is to combine the general theory of relativity and Richard Feynman's idea of multiple histories. Many related concepts and theories, for example, holography, duality, p-branes, M-theory and superstring theory, are explained. Only in chapter 6, the story is rather close to our life, and here the author describes also excitingly how biological and electronic life will go on developing in complexity at an ever-increasing rate.<br />I highly recommend this book to laypersons. They will possibly get only a feeling of understanding, not understanding itself; but the book surely opens their eyes more or less about the principles of the universe already found and those on the way to be found. Physical scientists outside Hawking's field might get some frustrations, because advanced concepts at the forefront of research are not conveyed well enough by the everyday language without the aid of the mathematical language suitable for physics.	2002-01-09
US	53095092	R3LE964IFONA60	0691006997	480412403	Einstein and Religion	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A Scholarly Description of Einstein's Religious Philosophy	In the first chapter that deals with Einstein's personal attitude toward religion, we learn the followings: Einstein regarded science and religion as mutually depending on each other, which is evidenced by his words, &quot;Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.&quot; However, the predominant motivations that led him to his development of the theory of relativity were purely physical considerations. Like Spinoza, Einstein denied the existence of a personal God, and used the term &quot;cosmic religious feeling&quot; to describe the sublimity and marvelous order in nature.<br />Near the end of the first chapter, the author asks a question, &quot;Did Einstein's conception of religion affect his scientific work?&quot; and derives a positive answer. The story that Einstein's introduction of the cosmological constant was religiously motivated concludes the chapter.<br />The second chapter discusses what Einstein has written about the nature of religion and its role in human society. Einstein's &quot;Credo&quot; about the cosmic religious feeling is cited repeatedly. In his essay read at a conference held in 1940, Einstein called the doctrine of a personal God not only unworthy but also fatal. The author writes about many responses Einstein got in reaction to this essay. At the end of this chapter the author analyzes Spinoza's role in the development of Einstein's religious philosophy.<br />As can be seen from the above, topics given in the first two chapters are quite attractive, and explanations are instructive to the reader who has interest in the mental background of Einstein's academic work. The scholarly style of the author's writing is enjoyable.<br />However, the third and final chapter that studies the influence of Einstein's scientific work on theology was not interesting to me at all. After finishing the book, I read Introduction section of the book again. To my great relief, I found the following words of the author near its end: &quot;It is possible that [Einstein] would have rejected all of the arguments in chapter 3 if he were alive.&quot; The reason why I was not interested in the final chapter was that my thought about religion was the same as Einstein's!<br />Thus I recommend the first two chapters to all those who have interest in Einstein or religion, but do not recommend the third chapter for those who think like Einstein.uot;It is possible that [Einstein] would have rejected all of the arguments in chapter 3 if he were alive.&quot; The reason why I was not interested in the final chapter was that my thought about religion was the same as Einstein's!<br />Thus I recommend the first two chapters to all those who have interest in Einstein or religion, but do not recommend the third chapter for those who think like Einstein.	2001-12-07
US	53095092	R1YXO3JM8D28XX	0195130065	331358053	Surfing through Hyperspace: Understanding Higher Universes in Six Easy Lessons	Books	4	33	34	N	Y	A Four-Dimensional World for Imaginative Minds	The four-dimensional world treated in this book is not the space-time of the theory of relativity, but the world with a fourth spatial direction different from all the directions of our normal three-dimensional space. A number of books on the fourth dimension had already been published. So, why did Pickover, an IBM researcher who published many popular books, write this book? He gives an answer in the preface: The main purpose of the book is to tell the reader the physical appearance of four-dimensional beings, what they can do in our world, and the religious implications of their penetration into our world, with a few simple formulas and computer programs to aid the understanding of the four- and more-dimensional spaces (those who are not interested in computing can easily skip them).<br />The author presents an SF story, in which an FBI agent, &quot;you,&quot; gives personal lectures on hyperspace to his younger fellow agent Sally. Finally they both experience surfing into a four-dimensional world. Meanwhile the reader learns concepts and terms such as &quot;hyperspheres,&quot; &quot;tesseracts,&quot; &quot;enantiomorphic,&quot; &quot;extrinsic geometry,&quot; &quot;quaternions,&quot; &quot;nonorientable surfaces,&quot; etc. The author succeeds in achieving his aim rather well by the use of many illustrations and computer graphics, though he cites too much from Edwin Abbott's &quot;Flatland&quot; in early chapters and from Karl Heim's &quot;Christian Faith and Natural Science&quot; in later chapters.<br />The book has nine Appendixes (one is a list of SF stories and novels about the fourth dimension), &quot;Notes&quot; and &quot;Further Readings&quot; sections, and Addendum about recent publications dealing with parallel universes and cosmic topology. These are also interesting and informative. This is a good book especially for theologians, philosophers, artists, and general readers who like wild imaginations or computer experiments. To the serious reader who wants to know the implications of hyperspace in modern physics, I would like to recommend Michio Kaku's &quot;Hyperspace.&quot;ts to know the implications of hyperspace in modern physics, I would like to recommend Michio Kaku's &quot;Hyperspace.&quot;	2001-09-11
US	53095092	R29HU6D5XAUFLG	0309069874	711028424	Einstein's Unfinished Symphony: Listening to the Sounds of Space-Time	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Tribute to Joseph Weber, the LIGO project and Much More	In this book Marcia Bartusiak, an excellent science journalist, writes about scientists' endeavors to detect gravitational waves coming from deep space. The existence of gravity waves was predicted by Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity, and they are considered to have the frequency falling into the audio range, but no one has ever listened to them. Thus the author elegantly entitled this book &quot;Einstein's Unfinished Symphony.&quot; Each chapter also has the title related to music. For example, the chapter about the discovery of the Hulse-Taylor binary pulsar, indirect evidence for gravity waves, is cogently entitled &quot;Pas De Deux.&quot;<br />Bartusiak's sentences are also rhythmic like music, especially in the earliest chapters, so that the reader comfortably learns about Einstein's discovery of the origin of gravity and Renaissance in relativity made theoretically by John Archibald Wheeler and experimentally by Robert Dicke. Wheeler is cited to have explained general relativity in one clear sentence, &quot;Mass tells space-time how to curve, and space-time tells mass how to move.&quot;<br />The pioneer of experimental work directly to catch gravity waves was Joseph Weber. He published his first results in 1969, claiming evidence for observation of gravity waves based on coincident signals from two bar detectors. Unfortunately, by the middle of 1970s nearly everyone came to agree that Weber was mistaken. Bartusiak writes that Weber had however created a momentum that could not be stopped. Weber died on 30 September 2000, just a few months before the publication of this book. Thus the book partially happened to become one of the earliest tributes to Weber. His first bar detector is now shown in the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D. C.<br />Then comes the central story of this book, the construction, improvements and prospects of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO). LIGO is a gigantic instrument system placed in Livingston, Louisiana, and Hanford, Washington. Its construction started as a collaborative project, involving dozens of scientists and the cost of more than $370 million. Among those scientists, Rainer Weiss is considered to be the founding father of the effort. His career began with a determination to get rid of the noises in a hi-fi system, only to transfer that interest ironically or rather wonderfully to reducing the noises that could mask a gravity wave.<br />Each piece of LIGO's detector includes a marvel of engineering. LIGO's &quot;classy&quot; physics and the virgin territory of possible gravity wave astronomy are gathering young physicists from around the world. Potential sources of gravity waves cataloged so far by Kip Thorne's Caltech team and other theoretical groups around the world are many and varied from black hole collisions to neutron-star mountains. The author tells us all the details of these in a quite understandable manner. She also describes gravitational research in countries other than United States and projects by the use of spacecrafts.<br />The book is well balanced between theory and experiment, between science and sociology, and between anecdotes and stories of serious pursuit. As for anecdotes, there is one about the fact that the term &quot;black hole&quot; caused a problem for a while in France. Read the book for the reason. This is a masterpiece of nonfiction, and will absorb the mind of both a scientist and a layperson.ivingston, Louisiana, and Hanford, Washington. Its construction started as a collaborative project, involving dozens of scientists and the cost of more than $370 million. Among those scientists, Rainer Weiss is considered to be the founding father of the effort. His career began with a determination to get rid of the noises in a hi-fi system, only to transfer that interest ironically or rather wonderfully to reducing the noises that could mask a gravity wave.<br />Each piece of LIGO's detector includes a marvel of engineering. LIGO's &quot;classy&quot; physics and the virgin territory of possible gravity wave astronomy are gathering young physicists from around the world. Potential sources of gravity waves cataloged so far by Kip Thorne's Caltech team and other theoretical groups around the world are many and varied from black hole collisions to neutron-star mountains. The author tells us all the details of these in a quite understandable manner. She also describes gravitational research in countries other than United States and projects by the use of spacecrafts.<br />The book is well balanced between theory and experiment, between science and sociology, and between anecdotes and stories of serious pursuit. As for anecdotes, there is one about the fact that the term &quot;black hole&quot; caused a problem for a while in France. Read the book for the reason. This is a masterpiece of nonfiction, and will absorb the mind of both a scientist and a layperson.	2001-08-20
US	53095092	RZS6BGZLESQRJ	0465078354	830433857	Three Roads To Quantum Gravity (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	134	139	N	N	Readers get at least a vague picture of a difficult problem	The completion of a quantum theory of gravity (quantum gravity for short) is one of the most challenging problems in science in the twenty-first century. This theory aims at unifying Einstein's theory of general relativity for large-scale phenomena with the quantum theory for the micro-world, to get understanding of everything from space and time to matter and the universe. Lee Smolin, Professor of Physics at Pennsylvania State University, tells the story of recent and future research pursuing this theory for the intelligent layperson.<br />The author writes earlier chapters very understandably. The reader who knew nothing about the quantum gravity learns easily the following interesting things: There are three approaches to quantum gravity, i.e., the route from quantum theory (string theory), the road from the theory of general relativity (loop quantum gravity), and the path from fundamental principles. To do cosmology the classical logic demanding that every statement be either true or false is inadequate. A theory of quantum gravity has to answer about the nature of the information tapped in a quantum black hole. The search for the meaning of the temperature and entropy of a black hole is now leading to the discovery of the atomic structure of space and time. Etc.<br />In the middle of the book the author states that the style of these chapters will be more narrative than others because he can describe from personal experience some of the episodes in the development of loop quantum gravity. Lessons told are, for example, as follows: Science progresses quickly when people with different backgrounds and educations join forces. Einstein's example teach us that trying to invent new laws of physics requires not only intelligence and hard work but also insight, stubbornness, patience and character. Of course, these are also quite understandable.<br />In the last three chapters some or most of readers might find it difficult to follow the author's explanation. After reading the whole book, however, all the readers would feel that they have gotten at least a vague picture about the difficult problem of proceeding to quantum gravity. This is an exciting book for those who want to catch a glimpse of theoretical physics at its forefront.<br />There are some typos. Among them the followings are especially unfortunate, because the meanings of one of the laws of thermodynamics and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle are completely reversed to lead laypersons astray: In chapter 7, &quot;The second law of thermodynamics requires only that the total entropy of the world never increase&quot; should read &quot;The second law . . . never decreases.&quot; In two inequalities in chapter 11, the symbol of &quot;less than&quot; should be that of &quot;greater than or equal to.&quot;ding the whole book, however, all the readers would feel that they have gotten at least a vague picture about the difficult problem of proceeding to quantum gravity. This is an exciting book for those who want to catch a glimpse of theoretical physics at its forefront.<br />There are some typos. Among them the followings are especially unfortunate, because the meanings of one of the laws of thermodynamics and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle are completely reversed to lead laypersons astray: In chapter 7, &quot;The second law of thermodynamics requires only that the total entropy of the world never increase&quot; should read &quot;The second law . . . never decreases.&quot; In two inequalities in chapter 11, the symbol of &quot;less than&quot; should be that of &quot;greater than or equal to.&quot;	2001-07-27
US	53095092	R25Q3FHN2D657Q	0521630096	943879513	The New World of Mr Tompkins: George Gamow's Classic Mr Tompkins	Books	4	40	40	N	Y	Mr Tompkins' Adventure in Physical Wonderland Modernized	The famous physicist and excellent popularizer of science George Gamow wrote the original version of this book &quot;Mr Tompkins in Paperback&quot; in 1965. Since then the understanding of the physical world from its smallest to largest entities has shown much progress. Thus the book, which was once one of the best classics in the genre of physics popularizations, needed a revision to continue its role of introducing the modern knowledge of fundamental physics to laypersons.<br />Russell Stannard, an able popularizer of science, courageously tackled this difficult problem of modernizing &quot;Mr Tompkins.&quot; Four chapters out of 17 are entirely new. Old chapters describe the theory of relativity, quantum physics and atomic and nuclear physics through Mr Tompkins' adventurous dreams and a series of lectures given by &quot;the professor&quot; to the lay-audience. Tompkins is among the listeners of the lectures, gets acquainted with the professor's daughter Maud, and . . . Maud's look, hairstyle and dresses in illustrations and the episode of romance have also been modernized. The new chapters treat black holes, a high-energy accelerator (&quot;atom smasher&quot;) and the results of physics gotten by it, quarks and the Standard Model, and the relation between the life of the Universe and particle physics.<br />Even the old chapters have been rewritten considerably. For example, Chapter 2 newly tells about an experimental evidence by neutral pion decay for the constancy of light speed, demonstration of relativistic time dilation at CERN by the change of life time of muons traveling at high speed, etc. The &quot;twin paradox&quot; of relativity has also been added in Chapter 2, and its further explanation is given in Chapter 3 (here is a minor but confusing error of &quot;she&quot; and &quot;he&quot; wrongly interchanged). I like this addition very much, because the &quot;paradox&quot; bothered me even after I had learned the theory of relativity at a university. (For a more complete explanation of the twin paradox, I recommend Max Born's &quot;Einstein's Theory of Relativity&quot; to readers of an inquiring mind.)<br />Being one of old Japanese fans of Tompkins, I feel a little sorry that the name of Hideki Yukawa has disappeared from the present version. Surely, his meson theory of nuclear forces became outdated, because constituents of nucleons and mesons, i.e., quarks and gluons, had been discovered. However, Yukawa's theory was a strong driving force for the birth of particle physics, and a good place where his name can be mentioned remains in Chapter 13 (in the original version it appeared in a later chapter, which has been omitted in the present version).<br />I highly recommend this book especially to young people who wish to major in physical sciences. There are a small number of simple equations of relativity and formulas of particle reactions. For those who are eager to learn about mysteries of the micro world and the universe, however, the presence of these would not be any hindrance to the enjoyment of the book but rather be an attractive feature. Some of old fans of Tompkins would also read the new version to welcome Stannard's good job.a more complete explanation of the twin paradox, I recommend Max Born's &quot;Einstein's Theory of Relativity&quot; to readers of an inquiring mind.)<br />Being one of old Japanese fans of Tompkins, I feel a little sorry that the name of Hideki Yukawa has disappeared from the present version. Surely, his meson theory of nuclear forces became outdated, because constituents of nucleons and mesons, i.e., quarks and gluons, had been discovered. However, Yukawa's theory was a strong driving force for the birth of particle physics, and a good place where his name can be mentioned remains in Chapter 13 (in the original version it appeared in a later chapter, which has been omitted in the present version).<br />I highly recommend this book especially to young people who wish to major in physical sciences. There are a small number of simple equations of relativity and formulas of particle reactions. For those who are eager to learn about mysteries of the micro world and the universe, however, the presence of these would not be any hindrance to the enjoyment of the book but rather be an attractive feature. Some of old fans of Tompkins would also read the new version to welcome Stannard's good job.	2001-07-12
US	53095092	R1QYNSXKM3JG8N	0670894303	957185241	Einstein in Love: (A Scientific Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Young Einstein's Love and Work	0<br />After studying a large number of published and unpublished letters for a decade, Dennis Overbye, the author of another well-written book &quot;Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos,&quot; successfully portrayed young Albert Einstein from the two sides of his personal life and scientific endeavor. In &quot;Einstein in Love&quot; Albert is depicted vividly as a lad who loved his former physics classmate Mileva and constantly tackled the most profound problems of physics. The author also writes in detail about the social and scientific backgrounds of the time and views of the places Albert lived in. Albert's marriage with Mileva comes to an unhappy ending. Then he marries his cousin Elsa. Albert's dark side during the years of these events does not elude Overbye's polished writing. In the section about Albert's relation to the physicist Hendrik Lorentz, the author writes, &quot;Albert was the eternal outsider&quot;; and at another place, &quot;When it came to women he could be like a child.&quot; These words cogently summarize the human side of the scientific giant.<br />A reviewer who is an expert in physics (A. J. Kox for &quot;Physics Today&quot;) has criticized that Overbye's discussion of science is not always accurate. The present reviewer thinks that if the description of physics were made more compact, this book would have been much more absorbing. Inclusion of a chronological table might have been a good idea. It is a little disappointing that the source of citation is often of secondary nature; for example, &quot;Bartlett's Familiar Quotations&quot; is cited many times. However, these are only minor defects. This is a laboriously and skillfully written book to be read by all those who love passion and science and revere &quot;Time&quot; magazine's Man of the Century.	2001-06-21
US	53095092	R3FLHC37RN3IVD	0738204420	249332112	Flatterland: Like Flatland, Only More So	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	A Pleasing Guided Tour to Higher Dimensions	The heroine Vikki Line is a great-great-granddaughter of the narrator A. Square of Edwin Abbott's classic book, &quot;Flatland.&quot; The teenaged Flatlander heroine goes to a tour to higher dimensional worlds guided by a Space Hopper. She visits the Fractal Forest, Topologica, Platterland, Cat Country, the Domain of Hawk King, etc., and learns, together with the reader, about many concepts of modern mathematics and physics. The author Ian Stewart, a winner of the Royal Society's Michael Faraday Medal for furthering the public understanding of science, writes the story in the style of &quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot; by using enjoyable wordplay and putting exotic and cute creatures he invented to familiarize the difficult concepts.<br />Some topics are treated in a manner to give the reader good understanding, but others are described only superficially. There are simple errors in giving a number for fractal dimension and describing the behavior of the decoherence time. (I leave it to the reader as exercises to spot them.) The author explains the particle nature of the photon by the uncommon use of the process of electron-impact photon emission, while the orthodox explanation uses the inverse process, i.e., the photoelectric effect.<br />In spite of these minor defects, this is a joyous read for holidays. The heroine is depicted as such a clever, adventurous and charming linear being (near the end of the story she comes to know that she is something superior to a line) that I think how I would have been happy if I had had a girlfriend like her in my youth. Her guide and tutor, the Space Hopper, often shows a big grin, reminding us of the popular physicist and good lecturer Richard Feynman. In the short last chapter, the reader feels it important that more of us, &quot;Planiturthians,&quot; become aware of the possible ten-dimensional reality of our physical universe, which Vikki learned at the final stage of her tour. Thus, I would like to recommend this book to every curious mind.y curious mind.	2001-06-18
US	53095092	R1KPBBI4EBJHJ0	0140280553	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An Excellent Biography with a Mystery-Like Ending	In the first one-third of the volume the author writes about Galileo's invention of a telescope, first observation of the moon's mountains and valleys, discovery of four satellites of the planet Jupiter, observation of a &quot;nova&quot; to impugn the Aristotelian immutability of the heavens, guess about the nature of sunspots, endeavor to support the sun-centered theory of Copernicus, etc., etc. Thus I thought that the title of the book was quite inappropriate.<br />Even reading later chapters, where many letters addressed to Galileo by his daughter with the name of Suor Maria Celeste are cited, I thought that this was a biography of Galileo himself, which well depicted not only his scientific but also his personal life together with family and social backgrounds. Near the end of the volume, however, there was an episode like a mystery. I felt like thunderstruck, and smiled and said to myself, &quot;Yes, the title is quite appropriate!&quot;<br />I could not help but imagine what wonderful work would Suor Maria Celeste have done if she had lived in the modern age not as a nun but as a scientist. The book also invoked in my mind great desires to read Galileo's books, &quot;Dialogue on the Two Chief World Systems&quot; and &quot;Two New Sciences,&quot; and to observe planets with a telescope. These facts would prove the excellence of this book.	2001-02-01
US	53095092	RTPDS1LHKL1H0	0738200689	924275143	The Runaway Universe : The Race to Discover the Future of the Cosmos (Helix Books)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Can we know the future of the cosmos in the near future?	From observation of supernovae, i.e., large exploding stars, two rival teams of astronomers recently found that the expansion of the universe was very possibly accelerating. The astronomer and science writer Donald Goldsmith tells laypersons the story centered on this discovery in this book. To explain the accelerating expansion, astronomers have revived Albert Einstein's &quot;cosmological constant,&quot; which he called his greatest blunder. It is interesting that the same author published a book entitled &quot;Einstein's Greatest Blunder?&quot; just a little before the announcement of the above discovery.<br />Before going into the main topic of the finding of the accelerating expansion, Goldsmith gives an introductory chapters on the discovery of galaxies, the expansion of the universe, the inflationary theory of the cosmos, and the existence of dark matter in the universe. These chapters might be somewhat tedious for those who already learned about them. When the story comes to the central theme, however, almost all readers would be fascinated by the author's clear explanation of painstaking research into cosmic riddles. Without using equations but effectively using some photographs and diagrams, Goldsmith succeeds in telling what has happened and is going to happen at the forefront of cosmology. The last chapter deals with pleasant prospects of astronomical observations in the nearest future, which will use new satellites and other powerful instruments to resolve many of the mysterious issues of cosmology including the fate of the universe.	2000-12-29
US	53095092	RK18FOZIAEMA0	0688171664	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Readable and Enchanting Novel Invoking Philosophical Ideas	A Japanese biologist wrote about this book in a Japanese magazine as<br />follows: Many years ago when she was studying in England and going to<br />buy a motorcycle, one of her colleagues recommended her to read this<br />book, but it was not really a book on motorcycle maintenance but a<br />book that taught philosophy in a simple manner. She liked this book<br />and read it repeatedly.<br />Reading this story and finding that the<br />twenty-fifth anniversary edition of this book was published in<br />paperback, I bought a copy and began to read it by expecting to learn<br />something about philosophy or the history of philosophy. To some<br />extent, this expectation made me read the book quickly in an effort to<br />get to possible chapters where the teaching of philosophy might be<br />fully given. Even without such a motivation, however, one could read<br />this book speedily, because the story magically enchants the reader<br />and because the style of Pirsig's writing is very readable even to the<br />non-native speaker of English who, like me, has read only a small<br />number of novels in English.<br />Surely, descriptions of classical<br />philosophies and contemporary philosophical problems are given in<br />parallel with the story of motorcycle traveling, I have found that<br />this is essentially a novel, which invokes ideas about the<br />reunification of art and technology and about the quality of life. The<br />great point of the book is that it can also be enjoyed as a book<br />on philosophy, though descriptions of ancient Greek philosophies in<br />later chapters are not very understandable. In the last chapters the<br />story of a relation between a father and his son reaches a moving<br />climax.	2000-11-11
US	53095092	R15IYOQVUBK9XE	0716731444	151023618	A Glorious Accident: Understanding Our Place in the Cosmic Puzzle	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Enjoy Brilliant Words of Great Minds!	Wim Kayzer interviewed six great thinkers: the psychiatrist and<br />neurologist Oliver Sacks, the philosopher Daniel C. Dennett, the<br />paleontologist and evolutionary theorist Stephen Jay Gould, the<br />physicist Freeman Dyson, the biochemist Rupert Sheldrake, and the<br />historian and philosopher of science Stephen Toumlin. Then all of them<br />participated in a round table to discuss the deep and<br />'unanswerable&quot; questions mainly related to our consciousness. The<br />content of this book was originally broadcast as a television<br />series.<br />In general one expects to get more systematic information<br />from a book on science or philosophy of science than from a television<br />program on the same topic, but naturally we cannot have this<br />expectation for a book produced from a television program. Further,<br />when an interview or round-table program is put into printed lines,<br />the discursiveness of spoken words comes to the surface, and the<br />program is apt to lose some of exciting flavors present in<br />broadcasting. This book is not an exception of this phenomenon, and<br />thus is good only for casual enjoyment but not good for obtaining<br />substantial knowledge. Reading carefully, nevertheless, one can find<br />some brilliant words of the great minds here and there.	2000-11-02
US	53095092	R28V8FKM42O56M	047132969X	111182027	The Accelerating Universe: Infinite Expansion, the Cosmological Constant, and the Beauty of the Cosmos (Wiley Popular Science)	Books	5	20	23	N	Y	Will the Beauty of the Final Theory Be Hold out?	A cosmologist and art fanatic, Mario Livio, elegantly tells the general reader about the recent observational finding that the expansion of the universe is speeding up contrary to the long-held belief of slowing-down expansion. He stresses the effect of this finding on the beauty of the fundamental theory of the universe; or rather the central theme of the book is that beauty.<br />Livio clearly explains his requirements for the beauty in physical and cosmological theories: symmetry, simplicity, and the Copernican principle (we are nothing special). According to the author, the tentative discovery of the accelerating expansion of the universe poses a frightening challenge to the beauty of the final theory by raising difficult questions about the non-zero value of the cosmological constant (or the energy of the vacuum). From the viewpoint of the Copernican principle Livio rejects resorting to the anthropic principle for giving a quick answer to those questions. The story told about the recent finding of extrasolar planets is intriguing and helps strengthen the basis of the expanding Copernican principle.<br />The book is so good that I am tempted to write all of its minor deficiencies I have noticed: The explanation of the inflationary model is not very understandable as the author himself admits in the book. The author's bottom line for Carter's argument about the rarity of extraterrestrial intelligent civilization is rather confusing, because the latter's argument seems simply wrong due to the contradiction of his conclusion to his two-possibility reasoning, aside from the dubiousness of his crucial assumption at the start. In the last chapter Livio writes about Wheeler's view of the participatory universe, but its distinction from the anthropic principle, if any, is not made clear. The first name of the Japanese physicist and cosmologist Katsuhiko Sato is misprinted as Katsuoko. It would have been much better to include bibliography of the books cited and the photographs of many paintings referred to.ographs of many paintings referred to.	2000-11-01
US	53095092	R2HWIQBOBC1US5	0198502540	801708668	Between Inner Space and Outer Space: Essays on Science, Art, and Philosophy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Marked by Originality of Ideas	This book is a collection of John Barrow's 42 essays mostly published between 1980 and 1998, but none of the topics treated has become out-of-date. Each piece of essay makes a chapter, and all the chapters are grouped into 10 parts. A short introduction in each part clearly sets the theme common to all the chapters of that part as well as the specific subjects of the chapters.<br />The title of every chapter is quite attractive to those interested in the fundamental problems of physics and cosmology and in their relations to, or a physicist's view of, other disciplines of mathematics, aesthetics and religion. Barrow's writings are sometimes not easy to follow, but are marked by originality of ideas.<br />For example: In the chapter &quot;Why is the Universe mathematical?&quot; the author first mentions that the sorts of answers depend upon what we think mathematics. Then he puts a puzzle, which is more fundamental in the laws of Nature, symmetry or computation. In the final paragraphs, Barrow states that the science is the search for algorithmic compressions of the world of experience, and comes to the conclusion that mathematics is useful in the description of the physical world because the world is algorithmically compressible. I have difficulty in finding how the earlier paragraphs are related to the last ones. However, the conclusion seems to be simple and persuasive, and would be paraphrased as follows: Mathematics is useful in the description of Nature because she has the characters of orderly complexity.<br />Only if you haven't read other books by Barrow and want to know his ideas, this would be a good buy.	2000-10-28
US	53095092	R2X2V90KTQTHLP	0195129423	932597910	The Sun, The Genome, and The Internet: Tools of Scientific Revolutions (New York Public Library Lectures in Humanities)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	An Intelligent Prediction of the 21st Century	In this book Freeman Dyson contends that the driving force of scientific revolutions is more often new tools rather than new concepts. A tool-biased view of the history of physics was written by the experimental physicist Peter Galison, while a concept-biased analysis was made by the theoretical physicist Thomas Kuhn in his famous book. Being a theorist, though, Dyson considers that Galison's view of science more pleasing, and predicts that three new technologies -- solar energy, genetic engineering and the Internet -- will be the most important things in the twenty-first century.<br />Dyson's books have always fascinated me by his wide-ranging intelligence, great insight, keen analysis and convincing arguments based on concrete examples. &quot;The Sun, the Genome, the Internet&quot; is not an exception. An additional agreeable character of his writing consists in the fact that he attaches importance to social justice realizable by technology. He expects that the gap between the rich and the poor would be narrowed by the ethical application of science.<br />In the final chapters of the book, Dyson discusses the future of the society under the inexorable growth of techniques suggested by the two big surprises that happened in 1997. These surprises are the cloning of Dolly and the defeat of the world chess champion by the IBM chess-playing program Deep Blue. The first of the surprises makes Dyson think about &quot;reprogenetics,&quot; which is a possible future technology offering the parent the opportunity to improve the quality of life of the child by removing bad genes and by inserting advantageous ones. We cannot read Dyson's discussion about this possibility without reminding ourselves of the science fiction &quot;Brave New World&quot; by Aldous Huxley.	2000-10-23
US	53095092	R27YZWQADTCNS8	1568581394	762384767	God's Equation: Einstein, Relativity, and the Expanding Universe	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Absorbing Story of Einstein, His Equation and Cosmology	Amir Aczel describes Einstein's equation of general relativity that governs the behavior of the universe from its birth to a possible role in the near future. The story is beautifully woven together with the latest finding in cosmology and the riddle of creation. While a few lines of equations are shown, their meaning is explained by simple terms that can be understood by lay readers.<br />On the basis of Einstein's letters that became accessible recently, Aczel tells for the first time the great physicist's efforts to get a prediction of his theory experimentally proved. Thus the author well succeeds in revealing a human side of the person who discovered God's Equation. This is quite a readable and absorbing book.	2000-10-15
US	53095092	R217QG2ZN46RT7	0345430093	495583167	Rocks of Ages - Science and Religion in the Fullness of Life (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	An Almost Self-Evident Principle Well Treated	Steven Gould treats the long-standing problem of the relation between science and religion in this book. The author explores the contemporary principle he calls NOMA, which is an acronym of Non-Overlapping Magisteria. A magisterium represents a domain of authority in teaching. The NOMA principle is that the magisterium of science and that of religion do not overlap, because the two magisteria cover different realms of empirical facts and moral value. This might seem to some readers almost self-evident. Describing the historical and psychological bases extensively, however, Gould elaborates the above concept so deeply and persuasively that even such readers will find the reading of this book rewarding. Especially this is a must read for those who are on either side of the debate of evolution versus creation in education.	2000-10-15
US	53095092	RUZKDI4KIB5XA	0802775624	793239388	The Joy of Pi	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Good for Amusement	This little book tells us in a cheerful manner about the history and snippets of the number pi, the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter. Many facts and factoids about pi are collected here. There are some equations, but those who don't like equations can appreciate them like beautiful illustrations.<br />In the section &quot;Memorizing Pi&quot; the author gives mnemonic devices in different languages. The description of one in Japanese includes errors. In fact, there is a better one in Japanese, which goes: &quot;San-i-shi (314) i-ko-ku (159) ni (2) mu-ko (65). San-go (35) ya-ku (89) na-ku (79) . . .&quot; down to the 1000th digit in a version. These Japanese words mean: &quot;An obstetrician goes to a foreign country. After childbirth, without misfortune . . .&quot; The present reviewer told the author about the errors and the better mnemonic, so that he will possibly take them into account in the revised edition. Aside from the above minor defects, however, the present edition is quite a good read for amusement.	2000-10-15
US	53095092	R39WUW0QCFBCB0	0465037402	620502691	Quintessence: The Mystery Of Missing Mass In The Universe	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	Rather Bright on Dark Matter	[The reviewer also recommends [[ASIN:0393064719 Quantum Man: Richard Feynman's Life in Science (Great Discoveries)]] by the same author.]<br /><br />Will the universe expand forever, begin to contract at some time in the future, or get to a balanced state? The answer depends on the amount of mass it contains. To explain the behavior of galaxies unaccountable by the mass of visible matter, the idea of \\"dark matter\\" was proposed in the 1980s.<br /><br />The title of the book \\"Quintessence\\" means \\"The Fifth Essence.\\" The latter was the title of the first edition of this book published in 1989. In ancient philosophy, it meant the heavenly material that was supposed not only to form stars but also to pervade all things, and is used here to represent dark matter.<br /><br />Lawrence Krauss starts the story by an intriguing brief review of the earliest notions of cosmologies and gives an updated and much detailed account of the dark matter problem for lay readers. The account covers both theoretical and experimental studies including those to be done in the near future. Some chapters might be hard for bedside reading even for scientists, because the author often lays one reason upon the other for an explanation. However, thorough reading of this book would be rewarding if you like to wonder about the mysteries of the universe and scientists' efforts to resolve them.<br /><br />The book contains some irritating misprints. For example, \\"decrease\\" should read \\"increase\\" at one place, and \\"charge\\" should read \\"change\\" at another.	2000-10-08
US	53095092	R2YJYJTD976JUE	0738202037	697514957	Supersymmetry : Unveiling the Ultimate Laws of Nature	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	Inspiring Story of Understanding the Physical Universe	For forty thousand years humans have tried to know how the universe<br />works, and now physicists are approaching the ultimate understanding<br />of the laws that govern the natural world. Gordon Kane, a renowned<br />particle physicist at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor,<br />describes the theories at the forefront of this majestic human<br />endeavor in a readily understandable manner. The author calls the<br />theories that work at different distance scales &quot;effective<br />theories,&quot; and an ultimate theory of nature &quot;the primary<br />theory.&quot; The central theme of this book is the supersymmetry<br />theory. This theory is expected to extend the Standard Model, the<br />validated effective theory on a scale of about a hundred million<br />billionth meter, down to the wondrous scale of nearly a hundred<br />million billion billion billionth meter (Planck scale), but it is not<br />yet the primary theory. Thus the author explains also the possible<br />relations of the supersymmetry and the next possible effective theory<br />called string theory, and their way up to the primary theory. Kane<br />writes not only about the features of the theories but also how these<br />would be tested experimentally.  To confirm the supersymmetry really<br />to be the next stage toward the primary theory, particles called a<br />Higgs boson and a &quot;superpartner&quot; have to be found in the<br />giant accelerators. Topics of research in progress are often referred<br />to in this book, so that the author uses an acronym of RIP for such<br />research. It is wonderful that many problems in RIP are treated in<br />simple words. This is quite an inspiring book, and I strongly<br />recommend it to all the readers of an inquisitive mind.	2000-09-20
US	53095092	R37K4WWJGTATCO	0679437649	894720032	Strange Beauty: Murray Gell-Mann and the Revolution in Twentieth-Century Physics	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Success and Frailties of a Nobel-Prize Physicist	George Johnson beautifully describes the life and work of the Nobel-Prize  physicist Murray Gell-Mann and the revolutionary history of elementary  particle physics. In addition to how the important discoveries of the  Eightfold Way and quarks were made, we learn Gell-Mann's diverse interests  in linguistics, ornithology, archaeology, environmental problems and  complex phenomena. The author writes not only about the physicist's  brilliance and success but also his human frailties such as his experiences  of writer's block and procrastination and his brooding temper, thus making  the biography complete as viewed from every side. This is a good book for  laypersons as well as for physicists.	2000-09-15
US	53095092	RHYLDOGFCIO3H	0465036724	413412337	Just Six Numbers: The Deep Forces that Shape the Universe	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Provocative for thinking about providence or multiverse	The author skillfully describes the mysteries of the physical laws that  govern our universe for a general readership. On page 2, he gives a list of  explanations for the six numbers he uses in this book. Readers may feel it  necessary to look back this list often while reading later chapters. For  this purpose, the explanations are a little lengthy and lack the rigor of  definition. However, this is a minor defect. The author ingeniously makes  the readers wonder about the deep forces that shape everything from  galaxies to life on earth to lead them to the final chapter. There they  would be interested in guessing by themselves if the fine-tuning of the  values of the six numbers is the result of providence or multiverse.	2000-08-31
US	53095092	R32127RH7RDGX0	0674216458	805732869	Driving Force: The Natural Magic of Magnets	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	The title has triple meaning	The author starts this book by the story of Albert Einstein at the age of  four or five, when his father showed him a compass needle. The behavior of  the needle gave a deep and lasting impression on young Einstein. Then the  author describes ten facts about the magnetic force in earlier chapters.  Using these facts, he gives detailed explanations on the workings of  various magnetic devices and the modern technologies of magnets in plain  words. The topics covered includes superconducting magnets, magnets in  motors, speakers, TVs, toys, fiction, magic and weapons, magnetic  recording, magnets in medicine, biomagnetism, and so on, namely everything  about magnets. The book is also interspersed with humorous comments. In the  last chapter the author goes back again to young Einstein's wondering at a  compass needle. The reader notices here that the title of the book has the  triple meaning. This is one of the most educational and well written books  I have ever read in the genre of science for laypersons.	2000-08-31
US	53095092	R2MJ9PP00U2X1F	0198503806	998725924	Lucifer's Legacy: The Meaning of Asymmetry	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Reason for the existence of life to elementary particles	The author beautifully narrates to laypersons how broken symmetry, i.e.,  asymmetry born from symmetry is important in the natural world for the  existence of life, molecules, atoms and elementary particles. The riddle of  the symmetry associated with the last of these items when the universe was  created is yet to be solved in the near future. At the end of the book, the  reader will be surprised to learn that Pasteur anticipated the importance  of asymmetry in 1860. In an early chapter the author writes about the  moderately well-known teaser &quot;Why do mirrors reverse left and right  but not top and bottom?&quot; His answer to this is astonishingly simple.  However, he should have been careful to give a more educational answer that  includes the explanation for the reversal of the left- and right-handedness  in mirrors, because he describes about &quot;mirror asymmetric&quot;  left-handed and right-handed molecules, right-handedness of DNA and  left-handedness of &quot;the mirror DNA,&quot; etc. in a later chapter.  [The latest academic articles on the mirror reversal problem can be found  in M. C. Corballis, Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review Vol. 7, No. 1, pp.  163-169 (2000) and T. Tabata and S. Okuda, ibid. pp. 170-173 (2000).] This  book would also be interesting for scientists to learn how they can talk  well about scientific topics to laypersons. It would have been much better  for the book to include a bibliography for citations and further reading.	2000-08-27
