US	53093763	R2WH0TF73EESR7	0929376927	958657322	The Power of Choice : A Guide to Personal and Professional Self Management	Books	5	11	11	N	N	I can't recommend this book enough	This is an exceptionally lucid exposition of the power of personal choices in each of our lives. It also details the innumerable ways in which we all do everything we can to deny the choices we have in our lives and how the evasion of personal responsibility serves only to psychologically weaken us. <br /> <br />One thing that hasn't been mentioned by any of the previous reviewers is that Ted Willey uses some of the key language and notions of Werner Erhard and the old est movement to forward his ideas. He does so in a way that is highly conversational, rational and communicative, without any of the controversial baggage that made est and its later incarnation, the Landmark Forum, so unpalatable for so many people. For this alone I appreciate Ted Willey's book. Erhard had some great perspectives, learned from his own personal experiences and also from therapists such as Fritz Perls. Unfortunately for Erhard (as well as for Perls), his overall lifestyle was eccentric enough and his packaging of his ideas controversial enough that the message was lost in the sometimes bizarre medium of its expression. Ted Willey's book manages to bypass all of that. His expression of fundamentally sound ideas is framed in a way that is immediately understandable. The average person stands to gain a great deal from reading and applying the concepts presented in The Power of Choice. <br /> <br />In conjunction with The Power of Choice I might recommend John Narciso's book Relating Redefined as well as William Glasser's book Choice Theory. They all complement each other and are most relevent in this time of personal and cultural abdication of responsiblity.	2004-12-17
US	53093763	R2ITJ9W1KSNIBL	1569245061	867875520	The New Glucose Revolution: The Authoritative Guide to the Glycemic Index--the Dietary Solution for Lifelong Health	Books	5	474	479	N	N	Works and Makes Sense--If You Read the Details	This is an excellent book for learning how to eat in such a way that you naturally move towards your optimal weight, and do so without hunger if you're overweight and need to lose.<br />A few of the previous reviewers apparently skimmed through the book and/or missed many of the qualifying details provided in the book about foods. Potatoes indeed have a high GI value: the bigger and older the potato the higher the value. So those small young red potatoes have a lower GI value than those big white Idahos most of us eat. Also, the authors stress that the goal of this approach is not to condemn all &quot;high GI&quot; foods and avoid them like the plague; the goal is to learn how to balance them out with sufficient low GI foods that you don't provoke the classical insulin spike associated with high GI foods.<br />And the approach is not a &quot;high carbohydrate diet.&quot; The GI values specifically measure carbohydrates and their different effects--as measured in the lab-- on insulin response. Meats, fish and dairy are pretty much &quot;no GI&quot; foods (as are a large number of vegetables by the way), and the authors encourage us to eat them abundantly (but to tilt towards the lean side of the meats and to still make sure we don't overeat). The main idea with meats, cheeses and other high protein foods is that they are &quot;calorically dense&quot; and that you can easily overeat them, the more fat they contain the easier.<br />This is not a &quot;plug and chug&quot; kind of a dietary approach. The authors expect their readers to be reasonably intelligent and mentally hard working in devloping their individual eating plans. The GI values were not simply &quot;invented&quot; because they sounded good in theory. They were discovered as a result of extensive experimentation with human subjects and extensive post-eating blood draws. <br />If you want a brain-dead approach that will simply tell you &quot;this food is good, this food is bad&quot; or that will tell you &quot;today is Tuesday, this is what you can have for lunch&quot; than this book is not for you. You are going to have to exercise your brain cells as well as your fork and your cardiovascular system (exercise is strongly encouraged) if you are going to get anything out of this approach.<br />In the very few weeks I've used this approach I've already lost 13 pounds with no discomfort whatsoever and a fair amount of &quot;cheating&quot; (actually there is no cheating in this approach. If you pig out on a particular food at one time you simply adjust your eating plan accordingly for the next day or so and proceed. Forget the guilt). If you want to take it slow and easy, just remember to throw in some veggies with every meal, and try to have a low GI fruit with every meal as well (and horrors!! another contradiction!! Bananas are both &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad.&quot; Young bananas that are still very slightly green have a tested low GI value; older bananas with a lot of black spots on them have developed their sugars and now have a high GI value. Focus on eating slightly green bananas and forget the paranoia about them).<br />The whole process is about learning which foods have low GI values and which foods have high GI values, and of thowing in some low GI foods whenever it seems appropriate and convenient, remembering that meats, poultry, fish and dairy are essentially &quot;no GI&quot; foods and including them in their lean incarnations as much as possible.	2004-01-15
US	53093763	R6449ILLXFPE1	0007133855	512363719	Illustrated Elements of Alexander Technique (The Illustrated Elements of...)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent introduction to Alexander's Technique!	This is the best overall introduction to the Alexander Technique that I've come across--and I've read my fair share of AT books. While it's a bit wordy, in part that can be explained by the fact that it was originally written in England. I personally find most books written in England are much wordier than books written in the United States, and they tend to have a peculiarly bland quality about them that sometimes can make them difficult to read. This book has some of those features, but if I were you and wanting to learn about the Alexander Technique, I wouldn't let the writing get in the way of my education. And there is enough informational meat in this book that it is worth overlooking the occasionally bland writing style.<br />There are numerous everyday applications of the Technique illustrated throughout the book, and much of the underlying physiology is also addressed. <br />A beginner can take up this book, use it and go a long way towards using the Technique in everyday life. Pretty good for an instructional book!	2003-09-08
US	53093763	R2DOMTSLWHQ3M3	0965334600	973752603	Death by Deception: Unmasking Heart Failure	Books	5	45	48	N	Y	An excellent followup to "Left for Dead"! A must-read!	I completely concur with clangley's review of this book. Death by Deception is the followup book to Dick Quinn's earlier book Left for Dead. In this book, Dick's daughter explains how congestive heart failure is most frequently there waiting for the person who survives a heart attack. She elaborates how cayenne saved her father's life, but how her father relied on it too exclusively to keep him alive and subsequently didn't make the lifestyle changes necessary for him to avoid eventual heart failure. She then goes into excellent detail describing how heart failure develops and what exactly it is. She describes all of the conventional treatments for heart failure and elaborates on the strengths and ultimate weaknesses of these conventional treatments. She then describes a regimen of using natural herbs--including of course cayenne--that help keep both heart attack and congestive heart failure at bay.<br />I've recommended this book to I don't know how many people. I consider this book a must-read for any male over the age of 35, and a must-read for any female who's approaching menopause, the time heart disease creeps up on many unsuspecting women.<br />If you don't ever plan on living this long, forget this book! Otherwise, whip out your credit card and order it already!!	2003-03-14
US	53093763	R3I4JJXYR3D9TG	0930464281	693678599	The Judeo-Christian Tradition: A Guide for the Perplexed	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A guide to help Christians better understand Judaism	This is a comprehensive yet difficult book. In it, Gary North painstakingly details how modern Judaism is based more on the writings of the Talmud and the Mishna than it is on the writings contained in what Christians refer to as the Old Testament. Many Christians will no doubt be shocked at some of what is contained in the Talmud, while many people of the Jewish faith may become defensive (as well as quite possibly shocked themselves). While much has been made lately of the inflammitory rhetoric found in the Koran (and in that regard I highly recommend the book \\"Why I am Not a Muslim\\"), virtually no mention has been made of the equally inflammitory materials found in the Talmud. The fact is, all three religious traditions have their darker moments, and Judaism is no exception. This book will hopefully add to the dialogue between Christians and Jews. I would say, as difficult as the book is, it is a must-read.	2002-06-28
US	53093763	R3FJGYH03LNI71	0930464176	347169413	Victim's Rights: The Biblical View of Civil Justice	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	An outstanding book! Exceptionally thought-provoking!	In my opinion, this is one of Gary North's best books, right up there with \\"The Sinai Strategy\\" and \\"Honest Money.\\" In this book, which is a spin-off of \\"Tools of Dominion: The Case Laws of Exodus,\\" North describes the Biblical view of the law as it is found in Exocus 21-22 and then applies that perspective to contemporary legal situations. The results are truly eye-opening.<br />Why, for example, when a thief robs a victim, does the thief pay damages to the State rather than the person he robbed? Why does the victim of the crime often receive nothing for having been robbed (unless he receives it though the insurance he himself paid for)? Why do the fines from speeding tickets go into the general funds of the city or county in which the infraction occured, rather than go into a fund to pay for the injuries to other drivers and pedestrians who are hit by speeders? When the funds go to the city, doesn't this encourage the corruption of underposting the speed limit, speed traps and ticket quotas for traffic cops?<br />Who is the victim of crime, the person who was robbed, beaten up or the family members of the person who was murdered, or is the victim of crime the State? Who should receive restitution from the offender, the victim or the State? Under our present non-Biblical system, the State receives the compensation from the criminal, not the actual victim of crime. It doesn't make sense. And because of that, our society is becoming increasingly lawless over time, not law-abiding.<br />I most highly recommend this book to anybody who is interested in better understanding the Biblical view of one of the major social issues of our time. Regardless of whether or not you are a Christian, this book will have you thinking and reflecting deeply on the issues it brings up.	2002-03-26
US	53093763	R1F80PYMVPORK5	0930464389	788920852	Productive Christians in an Age of Guilt-Manipulation: A Biblical Response to Ronald J. Sider	Books	5	20	44	N	Y	Classical Introduction to Christian Economics	This is one of the best introductions to a fully Biblical understanding of economics and ethics available. I would also recommend interested readers consider Gary North's \\"The Sinai Strategy,\\" \\"Honest Money\\" and \\"Victim's Rights\\". Chilton's book is extremely readable and highly engaging on an intellectual level. It is also a devastating biblical point-by-point refutation of what has been called \\"liberation theology\\". As the reader from Piedmont NC so aptly noted, the only negative review of Chilton's book--from Trent Austin--relied almost exclusively on trying to smear Chilton using personal insults and by trying to associate Chilton's arguments with those of Nazi's and of rednecks. Obviously, Trent Austin is unaware that the Nazis were socialists far more similar to communists and liberation theologists than they were to Christian capitalists. Similarly, by trying to associate Chilton with rednecks, Trent Austin is unaware that Chilton was from central California and had more of a hippie background originally than a southern one (and I won't comment on how his language would be called hate speech if it were directed towards any other ethnic group, or how southerners are the one group leftists feel free to despise and insult). Trent Austin aside, I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a fully Biblical understanding of how economics is supposed to work, and--just as importantly--how ethics is deeply involved with a nation's long term economic well being.	2002-03-06
US	53093763	R132TFVDOYCF2F	1883893364	360806835	True son of heaven: How Jesus fulfills the Chinese culture	Books	4	49	55	N	Y	A most enjoyable book to read.	While I'm not Chinese, my taiji teacher for the past 30 years who is 81 years old and originally from Shandong Province, clearly is. He was also raised a Christian while growing up in Shandong, and was one of the first Chinese to help establish churches in Taiwan after the Communist takeover of the mainland.<br />Much of the flavor of the stories and anecdotes my taiji teacher has told over the years describing China both to me and to the rest of his students resonates throughout this book. While I'm sure many Chinese readers will not like or appreciate the author's views, at the same time I'd have to say he's been very sensitive to the overall culture of China. The author is clearly a man who loves China.<br />It seems these days that when someone disagrees with what someone else says or thinks, it is fashionable to charge that person with bigotry or insensitivity. There are countless books in the West describing both Confucianism and Taoism, which also describe parallels between these philosophies and with Christianity. Are those authors who support Confucious or Lao-tzu being &quot;bigoted&quot; or &quot;insensitive&quot; in regards to Christianity? If not, why should a Christian who finds Christianity in core Chinese cultural ideas be smeared with these accusations? Frankly, given my extensive past readings of Lao-tzu, Kung Fu-tzu, Chuang-tzu and others, I doubt they themselves would be &quot;outraged&quot; at the author's Christian assertions.<br />On the other hand, there are some individuals so clearly afraid that China is on the verge of losing its national identity to the forces of modernization that they feel they must attack anything which in their view departs from the party line concerning traditional China. I would say to them, relax: China is not going to disappear into a giant McDonalds parking lot simply because some individuals view it from a Christian perspective or some Chinese convert to Christianity. My taiji teacher's taiji teacher-- a directstudent of Yang Ben Hou, by the way-- always told his students &quot;the secret to mastering taijiquan was Jesus Christ&quot;. That assertion wasn't enough to make many of his Chinese students convert to Christianity. Master Liu was a very traditional Chinese gentleman who also happened to be a Christian. The Chinese world didn't fall apart because of Sifu Liu's beliefs, nor will it fall apart now simply because the author sees Christ in some very old and traditional Chinese symbols.<br />I most highly recommend this book, both to Christians who want to understand Chinese culture on a more familiar level than the academic descriptions so prevelant out there, and also to those Chinese who are curious about Christianity and would like a bridge to understand it from a more Chinese perspective. I don't think the book &quot;forces&quot; any person, Chinese or otherwise, to embrace Christianity against their will. It simply expresses the author's love of both China and of Christ. The book is well written and has a poetic flavor to its stories, which I appreciated.	2002-01-24
US	53093763	R3L3J4PCBFFY7J	0942256107	380342514	Worms Eat My Garbage: How to Set up and Maintain a Worm Composting System, Second Edition	Books	5	124	130	N	Y	Hey! I loved this book!	This was a fun book about the little creepy crawlers! It gives a very solid scientific introduction to the little critters and answers most of your basic questions about worms. The focus of the book has to with vermiculture--the use of worms for developing super-rich compost material for organic gardens. Vermicompost is without a doubt the best composting material available for organic gardeners, and setting up your own vermicomposting bin is the best way to get yourself some of this richly organic fertilizer.<br />The book details how you can set up your own vermicompost bin, either by making it yourself or by purchasing a commercial worm bin. It also even describes how some school systems have saved themselves bundles of money by having worms eat the schoolkids' lunch scraps rather than pay for commercial garbagemen to haul the stuff away!<br />I would most strongly recommend this book for anybody interested in either worms, vermicomposting or organic gardening. It's a very fun read!	2001-11-21
US	53093763	R2DWZQK6X1H2XB	1874250405	246824300	Tai Chi for Two: The Practice of Push Hands	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	An excellent tuishou discussion--but not for beginners	I like Paul's discussion of taiji tuishou (push hands) and some of the suggestions he makes for developing one's tuishou abilities. However, I would not particularly recommend this book for beginners for two related reasons: first of all, the pictures are dark, and its hard to see where the arms and hands go sometimes. An experienced practictioner can make it out, but I doubt most beginners could without feeling really frustrated. Secondly, it lacks what I would call &quot;transitional pictures.&quot; A beginner can easily wonder how one gets from one picture to the next. Again, an experienced practictioner can figure it out, but most beginners won't have the knowledge base to get past this structural difficulty. The book would have been much better with at least double the number of pictures for each illustration.<br />That said, Paul's discussion of tuishou is very good, and reveals him to be both knowledgable in taiji tuishou and a mature individual. He doesn't especially blow his own horn, and also makes a point stressing the fact that tuishou is primarily a learning tool meant to develop one's taiji fighting ability and not a vehicle for competition in and of itself. To get hung up on tuishou is like Earnest Hemingway getting hung up on calligraphy and never writing a single story.<br />This is clearly one of the better taiji tuishou books out there. Hopefully one day they'll supplement the pictures.	2001-11-21
US	53093763	R3MJKSDDASU25E	0930462106	252540735	Fighting Chance: Ten Feet to Survival	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Real Civil Defense Eye-Opener!	I can't add much to what the previous two reviewers have said, other than to add that the materials presented in support of a system of home and local civil defense preparations make total sense--far more than any kind of SDI system so far proposed. The Russians have a saying that &quot;the Americans send men into space with the latest and most advanced technology. We send men into space in tin cans.&quot; There are times when low-tech makes the most sense, and in terms of civil defense, this is one of those times, as the authors make clear. One thing I found startling is the documented degree to which the Russians and the Chinese already have these low-tech solutions already in place, and so are not as threatened as we might think by the American &quot;nuclear deterrence.&quot;<br />Buy this book. Read it. Figure out how to apply it to your own life even if you cannot persuade the politicians to abandon their high-tech fantasies for low-tech practical solutions. You will sleep better at night knowing that at the very least you are taking care of your family.	2001-11-13
US	53093763	R1TNLT6HFBVZPH	0060195355	44787081	Reality Therapy in Action	Books	5	19	24	N	Y	Another Grand Slam Home Run for William Glasser! Excellent!	This is in my opinion one of the best works by William Glasser, one that clearly illuminates both Dr. Glasser's thought processes as well as the ethical grid from which he makes his peoplehelping decisions. His focus on choice as the central feature of all human difficulties as well as helping  efforts clearly puts him inside of a most noble tradition that includes  Thomas Szasz, Harold Greenwald and John Narciso. Regardless of whether you  come to this book as a professional or as a layperson, I would recommend  that you closely read, study and apply what you can from the sterling case  studies Dr. Glasser lays out before you in this book.	2000-04-27
US	53093763	R1NZL75IXXJH51	0151512760	623677052	The Liberation of One	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Best Book I've Read All Year!	This is a great book, both in terms of its historical detail and in terms of its emotional grip. The book reads like a great Tom Clancy novel in terms of its ability to instantly engage you in the main charactor's plight, yet its even more powerful in the sense that this is real history  and not fiction, a very individual and personal history and at the same  time a history of a European region throughout a very important period of  time.<br />I cannot recommend this book enough.	2000-04-21
US	53093763	R188TPUGX3VAD9	0963199617	46347387	Kyusho-Jitsu: The Dillman Method of Pressure Point Fighting	Books	5	18	25	N	Y	A must-have reference for any serious martial artist.	As a 28 year practictioner of Old Yang style taijiquan, I found many &quot;secret&quot; techiniques contained in this text regarding pressure point attacks. George Dillman has spent over 30 years researching the  acupuncture points necessary to end a fight, and in this, his first book, I  think he's done a commendable job. I would recommend the serious martial  artist buy this and also his second book. I would also recommend purchasing  some of his commercial videotapes, either from his school or off of ebay  when they become available. The one reviewer who complained that the book  did not contain healing techniques should purchase Dillman video #5 which  focuses on just that. Essentially, to heal you braodly strike the pressure  point you just attacked sharply with one knuckle, using your fingers or the  flat of your hand, striking the attacked point in the direction of its  natural energy flow (in an attack you go against the energy flow of the  meridian). If you don't know the direction of flow, you generally massage  the point. If you don't do anything to heal a pressure point strike, the  person usually recovers on his or her own in twenty minutes to a half hour.  If you knocked them out, they'll usually wake up shortly on their own even  if you do nothing to revive them (unless they're on drugs, especially  vulnerable to the type of strike you administered, or you hit 4 or more  points at once. Then they need revival (but you probably shouldn't have hit  4 or more points to begin with). That's generally it on how to heal a  pressure point strike. I still recommend you buy the healing video for the  fine points. Any serious martial artist of whatever style should seriously  consider buying Dillman's  books and videos. Hitting a pressure point and  numbing an arm or achieving an electrical (vs. a mechanical) knockout  is  more humane than breaking a leg, an arm, busting up some teeth or leaving a  black eye-- not to mention the whole issue of legal liability! Pressure  point fighting is clearly something more people can benefit from learning.	2000-02-21
US	53093763	R1LX1VL282VUUM	1556431511	375327592	Aikido in Everyday Life: Giving in to Get Your Way	Books	5	40	40	N	Y	One of the two best books on assertiveness training around	I've used this book both personally and professionally in both a hospital and a university counseling environment ever since the book first came out in hardback back in the 70's. Granting some of the complaints of previous  reviewers, the examples Dobson gives are now a bit out of date (Dobson  cannot update them; he died a few years ago), but I have yet to have a  college student fail to make his or her own update with little problem.  Contrary to some of the negative reviewers' comments, I personally have  found the book extremely useful, and so have the majority of the people I  have introduced the book to over the years. I've especially had a number of  university students tell me the book was very useful in helping them deal  with their problematic professors, parents, girlfriends or boyfriends.  Possibly some of the negative reviewers were hampered by the fact that they  were reading the book all by themselves, without any counseling assistence  or prior aikido training to help them fully orient to the concepts  presented in the text. Without a doubt, the &quot;geometry of  conflict&quot; theory presented in the book is sometimes quite arcane to  the uninitiated. Nonetheless, the writing style is friendly, conversational  and-- I find-- entertaining. As a supplement to Dobson, I also recommend  people read &quot;When I Say No, I Feel Guilty&quot; by Manuel Smith-- the  original assertiveness training book. With a little creative thought and  persistent practice, the techniques in both of these books are extremely  useful. Not magic, not a quick fix, but the techniques work if you work at  them.	2000-01-26
US	53093763	R1AUXT5VWK6ZE	0873640292	282342991	The Complete Book Of Knife Fighting	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A Classical If a Bit Dated Primer on Knife Fighting	First off, I recommend that you buy this book if you are at all interested in knife fighting. This is one of the first and one of the classical American books on knife fighting. It covers all of the basic techniques  that American forces have used for many, many years. At the same time, this  book is a little short on techniques, and it is entirely absent the escrima  techniques that have become very popular over the past couple of decades.  If you don't look at this book as everything for everybody, you will find  it a very good buy and not be disappointed. On the other hand, if you're  looking for the snappiest way to open and close your balisong, you're going  to have to look elsewhere, as this book was written before that time.	1999-12-22
US	53093763	R1I9H2O55329LW	0609803697	279465163	Freedom from Asthma: The Revolutionary 5-Day Treatment for Healing  Asthma with the Breath Connection (R) Program	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	It works if you work at it. Its not a quick fix, though.	I have to disagree with the reader from &quot;near Boston&quot; on this book. The Buteyko Method is not &quot;pseudoscience&quot; at all, although it does contradict a lot of conventional American medical understandings  about asthma and breathing disorders. The Method works if you work at it,  and if you are willing to go through the occasional discomfort of working  at it . This approach is not a quick fix, and many people will simply have  to take the $500 seminar to properly apply the Method to their individual  circumstances. Sometimes a book alone won't do it, which is something both  Stalmatski and Hale state only too clearly in both of their books. Contrary  to the reader from &quot;near Boston's&quot; assertion, there is some clear  discussion of how to use the Method in connection with exercise. It has  been used quite extensively with the Australian rugby teams to very good  success. I myself have modified my own exercise routines quite a bit, and I  also had exercised-induced asthma attacks in my past history. Now if I  exercise very heavily without proper warmup I might experience some mild  hyperventilation which I usually can bring under control in 5 to 10  minutes.  The straight skinny is that I recommend all of you out there with  breathing disorders to buy this book and try the Method out for yourself.  Make up your own mind. Consider taking the seminar. It will be worth it.	1999-11-11
US	53093763	R26J2Z1FOPZCDN	0609604244	966686304	Breathing Free: The Revolutionary 5-Day Program to Heal Asthma, Emphysema, Bronchitis, and Other  Respiratory Ailments	Books	5	50	50	N	Y	Excellent approach but you have to work at it.	In spite of what some of the previous negative reviewers have said about the book, the Buteyko Method is neither a &quot;crock&quot; nor is it &quot;pseudoscience&quot;. The approach works, but you have to work at it.  This book by Teresa Hale is an excellent introduction to the method-only  recently brought into the US via Australia and England-that's been  practiced over the past 40 years in the former Soviet Union. Some of the  negative comments by previous reviewers are accurate. The book is a bit  self-promotional and the claim that you can &quot;cure&quot; asthma in only  five days is not quite correct. You can learn the method in three to five  days, and in some cases even then experience significant relief from your  respiratory symptoms. However, to raise your control pause to 50 or 60 as  they recommend for optimal health will probably take you anywhere from a  couple of months to a year to accomplish. The method can be difficult and  uncomfortable to do, and continual practice is necessary. Nonetheless, the  method works if you work at it. You may need to take a full Buteyko seminar  rather than rely on the book alone. I suspect the negative reviewers either  were expecting too much from a book alone,  were looking for a quick fix,  or had medical complications that would necessitate their taking the full  seminar. The book even advises most people to take the seminar and not rely  on the book for all of the answers. Some people's conditions require subtle  modifications of the Method that only an experienced trainer can coach them  in. Maybe they should take the course.  In any event, I would most strongly  encourage any of you out there who suffers from any kind of respiratory  illness, from sinusitus to asthma, to buy this book, as I would recommend  any of you who suffer from symptoms of stress or anxiety  disorder--including panic attack-- to buy this book. Don't expect the  exercises to be too easy, and don't expect a quick cure. Think about takingthe Buteyko course if you need to. It'll set you back around $500. But as  one who started off with a control pause of less than 10 and who now has an  average control pause of 40 - 45, I will say the benefits in my case are  obvious and worth it. My chronic sinusitus which I've had from childhood is  cleared up entirely, as are my migraine headaches and most of my tendencies  to overeat. I've lost weight and am continuing to lose. My ten year old son  is even starting to practice the Method a little bit at a time. His  sleeping is very much improved, and he no longer wakes up with a dry or a  sort throat as he used to before.  I cannot recommend this book to you  enough.  :-)	1999-11-10
US	53093763	RZV23S0YVHG4O	0060975989	693879406	Environmental Overkill: Whatever Happened to Common Sense?	Books	5	40	45	N	N	A logical antidote to environmentalist demagogery	It's too bad this book is presently out of stock, because it's needed now just as much as when it first came out. In a well-worded, step by step logical fashion, Ms. Ray smashes the demagogues of the environmentalist  movement by exposing the facts behind the scare-story headlines that scream  that we are destroying the earth and that the only solution to  environmental disaster is to return to the horse and buggy days with a  dramatically reduced population. An earlier reviewer of this book,  jimn469897@aol.com  is full of nonsense when he slams the book through  association. In checking the hundreds of references Ms Ray includes to back  up her assertions, there are only a tiny handfull that come out of the New  American or some other politically incorrect magazine. Most of her  references are from sources such as CNN, Reuters, the Wall Street Journal  and a number of professional trade publications and scientific journals.  Try to buy this book used. It will be worth the effort.	1999-10-01
US	53093763	R2T520T03ZJYM4	0609803697	279465163	Freedom from Asthma: The Revolutionary 5-Day Treatment for Healing  Asthma with the Breath Connection (R) Program	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Read this book along with Teresa Hale's Breathing Free!	Freedom From Asthma has been the premier introduction to the Buteyko Method of Breath Retraining up until the introduction of Teresa Hale's book Breathing Free. I most strongly recommend you buy both books, read them and  apply their lessons to your own breathing. The Buteyko Method applies to  far more than asthmatics, as you will find out when you read these books.  If you've ever had any kind of wheezing in your life, if you've ever had an  allergy attack, a bout of pleuresy, bronchitis, sinusitus, an anxiety or  panic attack, or if you've had any one of a host of other common diseases  of everyday life, then you need to learn about the materials in this book.  I recommend you read Hale's book as well as Stalmatski's, because there are  things in Hale's book about the Buteyko Method that are not in  Stalmatski's, and there are things in Stalmatski's that are not in Hale's.  In the end, you'll probably want to take a Breath Connection workshop, but  I'll leave all that for you to discover for yourself as you go through  these two books. I've had a lifelong on-again, off-again history of  respiratory disorders, including infantile double pneumonia, childhood  asthma, late adolescent pleuresy and panic attacks, and adulthood sinusitus  and bronchitis (I don't smoke, by the way). Having started learning the  Buteyko Method from these two books, I can say I feel much calmer and  healthier than I have in a long time and, by the objective measure of the  Control Pause (which you'll learn about in both books), I'm only halfway to  where I can realistically expect to go with the improvements in my  breathing. By the time I'm done with all this, I'm also looking forward to  my wife and three children eventually learning the Method. Buy Stalmatski's  book. You'll be glad you did.	1999-08-12
US	53093763	R2VZ9J5B6AXK2M	0609604244	966686304	Breathing Free: The Revolutionary 5-Day Program to Heal Asthma, Emphysema, Bronchitis, and Other  Respiratory Ailments	Books	5	43	43	N	Y	*The* premier introduction to the Buteyko method!	If you have or ever have had any kind of respiratory problem in your life, or you know of someone who's had any kind of respiratory problem in their lives, BUY THIS BOOK! The Buteyko method of breath retraining promises to  be the medical breakthrough of the next century, and this book is as good  an introduction to the method as it gets. I began the book with a Control  Pause of 8 and finished the book a week later  with a CP of 30 and am  looking forward to getting to 50 or 60. You'll have to read the book to  understand about the Control Pause, but I'm willing to make the prediction  that, in the years to come, the CP will be regarded  as almost more  valuable than the pulse in determining a person's overall state of health.  The book's thesis--that carbon dioxide is not the waste gas we've all been  taught it is, and that low-grade hyperventilation is at the root of an  amazing number of health disorders--is one of those counterintuitive ideas  that suddenly makes a lot of sense once its implications are thoroughly  spelled out. That the book does. My only constructive criticism of the book  is that it tends to be a little wordy in some parts, and occasionally  repititious, but not so much that it becomes disagreeable. For us Yanks on  the western side of the puddle, a bit more brevity would have been welcome.  Nonetheless, this book is too important to let a few literary bumps stand  in the way. Buy the book, read it, and begin practicing the exercises. Give  yourself a week to try it on for size. You won't be disappointed. I most  certainly was not. I'm feeling much better already.	1999-08-02
US	53093763	R1URMFMWDL1Z7L	1883175062	82876083	Effortless Combat Throws	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	An Excellent Intro to Internal Martial Arts Theory	As a practictioner of Yang Ben-Hou based taijiquan with 27 years experience, I would recommend anybody with an interest in the internal martial arts to buy, read, study and then work at applying the materials  presented in this book. This is clearly one of the best expositions of  internal martial arts theory written in readable English that I have  encountered to date. One of the problems Americans have in learning the  Chinese martial arts is that there is very little written material  available that is readily understandable and practically applicable to the  average student. The &quot;Tai Chi Classics&quot; are written in terse and  frankly arcane Chinese, and are then translated into a stilted style of  English which communicates little in the way of immediately useful  information. My own taiji teacher, a 79 year old practictioner from China  who learned taiji beginning at the age of 16, and who is fluent in most of  the Chinese dialects as well as in English, essentially says that the books  out there are &quot;useless&quot; to learn from, and up until I read this  book, I basically agreed with him 100%. Now I have an exception to state to  my teacher's  rule of thumb. One thing I should state about this book: the  techniques illustrated here are more from Chinese wrestling (san shou) than  they are from conventional taiji or tui shou (push hands). I personally  wasn't as interested in the second section of the book detailing the throws  than I was with the first half of the book detailing proper setup and body  alignment principles. No matter. The book is excellent. Buy it!	1999-06-11
US	53093763	R1D98LGJ902BQC	1565072952	904655253	Goodbye Is Not Forever	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A most touching  account of  a child's life during WWII	I plan to recommend this book to everyone I know. Amy George's account of life in the Soviet Union during Stalin, and of living with her mother hand to mouth as a  &quot;war slave&quot; under Hitler was extremely  eye-opening. Her account of life in an extremely hostile environment  reminds all of us fat, lazy and overly comfortable American Christians just  how complacent we've become in taking our political and religious liberties  (not to mention our enormous riches) for granted.  Amy's account of her  gradual introduction to God in the midst of her suffering,  and of her  eventual conversion to Christianity is most uplifting and inspiring. I  thank Amy for writing this most touching and memorable autobiography.  Read  the book. You'll be most glad that you did.	1999-05-17
US	53093763	R1WC6N2RPFI1O2	1879797011	286146856	Relating Redefined : Discovering the New "Language" for Communicating	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	One of the best manuals on developing  mature relationships	This book's been out for over 23 years. Earlier it was published  by  Prentice-Hall under the title &quot;Declare Yourself&quot;. Prof. Narcicso  lays out in very clear language the essence of emotional manipulation and  the ways it can be replaced by a style of language which emphasizes adult  maturity and personal responsibility. I have used this book as a  theoretical underpinning in all of my clinical work for the past 21 years.  I most strongly recommmend you buy it, read it, and spend time applying its  principles and techniques in your daily life. This is one self help book  that really works. It is unpretentious (no psychobabble!), straightforward  and effective.	1998-09-14
US	53093763	R15QR6N4TC7V5G	0840743882	341933530	Released from Bondage	Books	5	25	25	N	N	An Important Follow-Up to Victory Over the Darkness	I'm glad this book is in reissue. I've sorely missed not being able to recommend it to others. If you've read Victory over the Darkness and The Bondage Breaker, this is the next book by Neil Anderson you should read! No reservations! Many of the themes initially brought out by Anderson in these prior books are developed in detail in Released From Bondage. Buy it and study it. You will not be disappointed.	1998-06-16
US	53093763	R33PBAJQQ4C2IR	0942637534	424554637	When AA Doesn't Work For You: Rational Steps to Quitting Alcohol	Books	5	59	59	N	Y	The best alternative to the Big Book around! Read it!	This is easily one of the best books on addictions around. Ellis and his co-author lucidly describe the dynamics of abusive and self-destructive drinking in such a way that the individual's self-responsibility is maximized and the &quot;addiction excuse&quot; eliminated. While this approach often brings wails of protest from persons still committed to drinking as much as they want to while still &quot;looking good&quot; (at least to themselves), in the long run it is precisely the honesty of the Ellis approach which is the most effective means around to overcome abusive, self-defeating and suicidal drinking habits. Ellis also looks at issues relating to life without alcohol, and in his typical &quot;take no prisoners&quot; approach using the principles of Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy, shows how to overcome the most common &quot;after the party's over&quot; problems of the ex-abusive drinker. This book is a must read if you either drink destructively yourself, or interact with an abusive drinker	1997-08-04
US	53093763	R18IIZTCWZX0A7	0694516511	912012941	How Could You do That?! The Abdication of Character, Courage, Conscience	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Cut through your excuse-system and take responsibility!	If you never read another self-help book in your life, read this book! Dr. Schlessinger cuts through all of the typical excuses people present to explain why they &quot;had to&quot; behave irresponsibly or selfishly, and she points out the ethical choice points that always exist in the social dilemmas of everyday life. &quot;Dr. Laura&quot; describes how a good life always begins with good choices and good behavior. If you want satisfaction in your life, you'd better wake up and smell your excuses, clean up your helpless act, and start to behave like a mature, responsible adult. Therein lies happiness	1997-03-21
US	53093763	R9WK1U6XJLE4R	0879752971	657731563	Telling Right from Wrong	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A very useful, sometimes obtuse, offbeat book on ethics	Tim Cooney's a philosophical maverick who has a blue-collar approach to ethics and philosophy that is very useful if occasionally hard to read. He has a wonderfully offbeat sense of humor that comes out in the book, while making philosophical points that your typical ethics book avoids. I only find it too bad that an earlier book of his &quot;The Ego and The Machine&quot; is out of print. This is not light reading, but it is worthwhile	1996-09-25
US	53093763	R2ZSYTZKEHXD5X	0664244866	379943435	The Three Faces of Love	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the very best books on relationships around!	If you are married or in a relationship, buy this book! Read it! Study it! Scribble it all up in the margins! Most importantly, PRACTICE the principles outlined. You will find your satisfaction with your relationship improving exponentially. Or you will non-neurotically getting out of the thing. I've used Dr. Hauck's book both personally and professionally for many years now, and have had many of the couples I see for marital and couples therapy read and use the book. Virtually all of them reported positive and constructive results from it. My only regret is that Dr. Hauck's companion paperback Marriage Is a Loving Business is now out of print	1996-06-03
