US	53096020	R21QYWFA76V02R	0670034010	543918266	Dear Zoe	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A profoundly moving and important book	Just before the first anniversary of the hit-and-run death of Tess deNunzio's 3-year-old sister, Zoe, and, only peripherally the first anniversary of September 11, Tess writes to her deceased sister, \\"sometimes I still miss you so much it feels like someone is pushing their finger into the base of my throat and I cry  . . . .\\"  Yes, that's exactly how it feels!  I swear, Philip Beard lives inside Tess's head.  And when Beard/Tess continues, \\"each time it happens it feels like I'm going to have a little longer until it happens again and usually I do.  It's not that I'm missing you less,  It's more like I'm finding a place to keep you.\\" Can anyone think of better words  to describe their memories of a loved one lost as the years pass?  <br /> <br />If you still yearn for the visions of Susie Salmon in \\"The Lovely Bones\\", this is the next great book, one that is, for unknown reasons, still very much under the radar of best-sellerdom.  On just about every page, I had to stop and taste over and over again the small stark gems of prose that so exquisitely touch on this  15-year-old narrator.  I hope to read more from this amazing author. <br /> <br />Publisher's Weekly complains that \\"Most problematically, however, September 11 feels like a giant peg on which a small (but lovely) coat has been hung.\\"  That IS exactly the point.  As Tess explains how her family will spend the first anniversary watching home videos and talking about Zoe \\"while the world is remembering everyone else\\", those who grieve are never alone -- \\"that on any day you could pick there are thousands and thousands of little deaths, tiny tragedies, and that all of them matter\\".	2005-05-30
US	53096020	R2YENC7LX8J9KG	140004071X	141181154	Project X (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	3	4	N	N	How true it is	Anyone who  ever felt shunned by classmates,  who remembers junior high or high school as a profoundly miserable time, who recalls not having anyone to eat lunch with, anyone who ever, even for a moment, imagined perfect vengeance will understand \\"Project X\\" in a visceral way.   Of course, any person over 40 who attends a high school reunion will admit to one or all these; they are hardly unusual feelings, even among the kids you thought were most popular and happy.  The difference between then and now is that  most of our revenge scenarios did not include guns and deaths, just for every kid to experience an equisite taste of the same wretched lonliness.   <br /> <br />Jim Shepard's book is an important one for every teacher, every school administrator, every person in the so-called \\"helping\\" professions and, especially, parents, to read.  Of all the books purporting to understand what's behind the kids who bring guns to school or make up hit lists, this is the most searing and unforgettable. <br /> <br />Heed the warnings. They are there right under your noses.	2005-05-30
US	53096020	R39BAX3UVRERNZ	0375505490	388959500	Being Perfect	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Entire book could be written in one paragraph	Charging $12.95 for a 64-page book that is essentially a commencement speech sprinkled with photos from the Fifties seems the ultimate in chutzpah.  Although I love Anna Quindlen's columns and novels, this book warning about the displeasures of perfection is not worthy of hardcover treatment -- it should be one in a collection of essays.  There is nothing here that has not not been said before, many times before by others, some even more eloquent than Quindlen.  Save yor money and read the amazon.com reviews -- you'll get the entire gist and more from those.	2005-05-23
US	53096020	R3RJM2HEE2BT8	1594630097	563745222	Fat Girl: A True Story	Books	2	27	36	N	N	Most pointless book of self-hate I've ever read	Like mosquitoes drawn to lights, I couldn't stop reading this blessedly short vilification of overweight people.  208 pages could hardly contain the mounds of self-hatred Judith Moore exhibits here.  I have to admit she writes well.  When she describes a meal, she not only seduces the reader into craving, she makes her smell and taste it. Unfortunately, the same can be said about her depictions of fat people; I kept feeling she wanted me to shower and put on deodorant several times while reading.   <br /> <br />I looked at the author's photo on the back flyleaf and could not figure out just why she described herself in the beginning of the book as looking so horrendous and disgusting, with rolls of abdominal fat hanging over her thighs and each bubbling buttock sluicing against the other.  She looked fine to me, very normal.  Moreover, she admitted to being, at most, only 40 pounds overweight, weight she continually lost and regained over the years.  I have been more than 40 pounds overweight and I never looked anything like the woman she so vividly describes, nor do other people I know with even more excess poundage.  Ms. Moore is evoking someone morbidly obese, someone begging for a heart attack or stroke.  She described her father as repulsive at over 6 feet and more than 200 pounds.  Yet, most men over 6 feet tall are at a healthy weight when near 200 pounds.  Then I realized that her outrageously abusive childhood had obviously warped her perception of herself (and other overweight people).  As she said \\"Even when I was slender, I was fat\\".   <br /> <br />But I have read Ms. Moore's earlier book, Never Eat Your Heart Out, where her autobiographical sketches are of, as another reviewer wrote, a \\"relatively ordinary life\\" with little hint of the horrendous existence she portrays and blames in Fat Girl.  Yes, her parents divorced when she was very young, yes, her father disappeared from her life and her grandmother and mother were vicious shrews, her school life was friendless and full of teasing.  Hey, that's the story of hordes of people who have nonetheless gone on to lead fulfilling lives free of excessive vitriol focused on a past they cannot get beyond.  Ms. Moore is now in her sixties and the mother of two grown daughters.  She must realize that a lousy childhood and nasty relatives should not be given permission to control her perceptions and self-worth into late adulthood. My advice to Ms. Moore - get over it.  Do good deeds for others less fortunate (yes, there are people with worse lives), smile, and act like the attractive and well-adjusted person you want to be; it will quickly become self-fulfilling. Or get thee to a good therapist posthaste.   <br /> <br />For those who might read this book, save yourselves the agony and have something to eat instead. <br />	2005-05-16
US	53096020	R1OL7QR51UA5OH	0743255399	546740642	Speak Softly, She Can Hear: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Don't miss reading this book!	I'm a bit dumfounded by the negative reviews I'm reading here.  Speak Softly, She Can Hear is one of the most satisfying novels  I've read in a very long time. I am particularly perplexed by those who found the characters flat and one-dimensional.  I was so impressed by just the opposite throughout the book.  The main characters of Carole, Eddie, and Naomi were so well fleshed-out and real that I often forgot I was reading a novel.  Even the minor characters such as Carole's parents and Rachael were so authentic, I could touch their emotions, see what they looked like. Ms. Lewis rendered her characters fully dimensional not through pedantic punctuation-starved paragraphs delineating every pore in their faces, every possible nuance behind every gesture, but rather by concise depictions of what they did, through few words very succinctly wrought.   <br /> <br />I am only a year older than Carole would have been and, maybe having lived through the same times, I can relate better to the behavioral strangulation so common in the very proper late 50's and early 60's, the heady feeling of freedom that comes with going away to college, the very physical pull of the sixties and the impetus many young people had to just cast off ties with their pasts and move newly formed into places unknown, to begin anew with people who didn't know them before.  <br /> <br />I can also well understand the yearning for a friend, even one who only appears to be so but who never really was, yearning coupled with self-hate, that can compel someone to do whatever it takes to keep that slithering connection going, even when to do so will hurt them. No matter how old we get, how much wiser and mature we become, we can never really let go of those feelings that were so much larger than life when we were only 16. <br /> <br />In the end, this was an exceptional story I will recommend highly to all my reading friends, one that propelled itself admirably with exquisite shocks of fear ever lingering onthe edge, one that concluded with just the right revelation of love's superiority over fallacy. I urge everyone to read this one.	2005-05-08
US	53096020	RNALNFZC94QFZ	0618277242	437487117	Coming to Term: Uncovering the Truth About Miscarriage	Books	5	49	52	N	N	Invaluable information unavailable elsewhere	For anyone who has experienced a miscarriage (or, even worse, miscarriages), this is a must-read book.  From Cohen's extremely detailed but easily understandable descriptions of how eggs and sperm are created and how they meet to create a human being to the debunking of common myths (still held by most doctors), you won't be able to stop reading.   <br /> <br />One's first surprise is how humans ever manage to reproduce at all when approximately seven out of every ten conceptions fail.  The next surprise is that early home pregnancy tests can be as much a curse as an announcement of happy news.  By now knowing just days after conception that they are pregnant, most women will likely \\"experience\\" early miscarriages that would have gone unnoticed or been regarded as simply late periods a mere ten years ago.  More of these women will believe they have a problem conceiving when what they are really experiencing is the body's very normal method of maintaining only those fertilized eggs most likely to develop into healthy babies.   <br /> <br />Cohen describes extremely intriguing cellular studies of conceptions from the first moments of fertilization to weeks after implantation to demonstrate what really happens when sperm meets egg and the many things that can go wrong.  Almost all of the early failures are due to either problems with implantation (often hormonal or a matter of bad timing) or chromosomal defects that occur at the very first stages of cell division, which are infinitely more common than anyone knew before.  Even more surprising is the finding that it's not the age of the woman's eggs that causes the development of more babies with chromosomal defects (most commonly Down's Syndrome caused by an extra copy of chromosome 21) but rather how close the woman is to menopause (something she probably wouldn't even know without a uterine biopsy). In other words, and most beneficial to women looking for answers, it's not the woman's fault.  A miscarriage is not caused by that glass of wine she had at the office party or the 5k race she ran last weekend or the shocking news that a loved one suddenly died. <br /> <br />In addition, the author explains, through many double-blind scientific studies, that many, if not all, of the \\"treatments\\" physicians offer for recurrent miscarriages are useless except as \\"something to do\\".  The only \\"treatment\\" shown to have real, repeatedly verifiable, effects is a warm and nurturing relationship between the woman and her healthcare givers throughout her pregnancy.  The good news is that even for women who have experienced up to 8 or more miscarriages, almost all will eventually bring a healthy pregnancy to term.  <br /> <br />And, finally, Cohen acknowledges that, for most women who experience even one miscarriage among several successful births, losing a pregnancy, even it's just a week or two after conception, is an emotionally sad event that can be vividly remembered one's entire life.	2005-02-07
US	53096020	R3T4M0QU1Q7H42	1401351891	407087155	You Make Me Feel Like an Unnatural Woman: Diary of an Older Mother	Books	5	9	14	N	N	More true than most mothers will admit	Even acknowledgely humorous books provoke me into laughing out loud maybe once or twice but I howled with laughter more times than I can count in Judith Newman's ode to late motherhood and the birth of twin boys.  The reviewers who found her laments off-putting need to grow a sense of humor before their children become teenagers.  Ms. Newman tells it like it is!<br /><br />I, too, had some babies who were no one's idea of beautiful (although most of my friends lied and the babies got better with age), who were always last among their playmates in reaching developmental milestones (yet have grown into successful and very intelligent adults), and I too, like Judith, thought about buying them toys labeled \\"Warning: Choking Hazard - Contains small parts not suitable for children under 3 years\\".  I was also bullied by momzillas who charted their progency's every \\"brilliance\\" and convinced me I had a brood of morons destined for sheltered workshops.  The only difference between the author and most mothers who can see the truth behind parenthood (and still laugh about it) is that she had a full-time nanny.  Most of us manage to muddle through alone as best we can  and not rear serial killers along the way.<br /><br />This memoir is also valuable reading for those mothers married to much older men who are not as enthralled with babies as we may expect.  Judith's husband who, in the best marriage arrangement I've heard of, lived in a different apartment, avoided the babies as best he could out of fear they would grow to miss him if he died before they grew up.	2004-12-07
US	53096020	RFAZWI8FRHTTW	0471648108	118862270	Your Evil Twin: Behind the Identity Theft Epidemic	Books	2	11	13	N	N	This could have been so much better	To begin with, I was terribly distracted by all the typographical/spelling and editing errors that ran rampant in this book.  Why would anyone put a book out for sale that hasn't been proofread?   <br /> <br />But most of all, this book covers an extremely important subject, one of potential interest to just about everyone, and yet it was so shallow.  I have been better informed about identity theft, what it is, what is being done about it, and what we can do if we are targeted as victims in local newspapers and in magazine articles.  There was no discussion of many very common methods of identity theft, including observation of victims as they enter their ATM or telephone pin numbers and codes, inadvertantly leaving passwords and usernames on public computers, giving credit card numbers to untrustworthy websites, using credit cards in untrustworthy restaurants and stores, writing passwords in places others can easily access, being victimized by phishing schemes, etc.  Each of these and many more are methods of identity theft easily avoided yet this book doesn't mention them. <br /> <br />Even the anecdotes left me hanging for more detail, more of what happened and why.  Instead, they rambled on disconnectedly and often had no beginnings nor conclusions.  The organization of the book was sub-par, which accounted for much unnecessary repetition of minor details.  This book simply screams for a better editor.	2004-11-11
US	53096020	R1N613XO7CY625	0743454529	354573823	My Sister's Keeper: A Novel	Books	3	280	369	N	N	The book was great, the ending was all wrong	I have never read any of Jodi Picoult's books before but this one intrigued me so much that, as I approached the end, I was prepared to read more of her.  I was thoroughly captivated by the not-so-unreal issue of a daughter genetically engineered for the sole purpose of saving her sister's life from a rare form of leukemia.  Unbeknownst to the parents, however, the innocuous use of the baby's umbilical cord blood was not the beginning of two wonderful lives.  The new daughter, Anna, is used over and over again for the next 13 years to save her sister's life over and over again.  When she's not being a lifesaver, however, Anna feels invisible as a daughter.  Finally, when only a kidney will do the trick, not the easily given and replaceable blood, bone marrow, and blood products, Anna rebels and decides it's her body and she no longer wants to give it up.  She hires a lawyer and sues her parents for medical emancipation. <br /> <br />What follows is a wonderfully evocative story, told from the viewpoints of all the players, all very fascinating in their own rights.  I have a daughter who is an 11-year cancer survivor  so I know so much of this book rings very true.  I had to stop every few pages to think about the issues and how I might respond were I living THIS story,  not my daughter's whose treatment and outcome were so successful and required only anonymous blood and platelet donors.  My only complaint is with the characterization of the mother, Sara, which seems a bit one-dimensional.  Picoult does not show us the soul beneath Sara's obsession, everyone else be damned, to save her older daughter's life.  <br /> <br />But then, just as the reader is preparing for one of two or three possible, conceivable, endings, Picoult does something for which I cannot forgive her.  She throws in an ending for which no one can be prepared and for which no one SHOULD be prepared.  It was gratuitous, capricious, disjunctive, and entirely unnecessary.   It will be a long long time before I ever pick up another Jodi Picoult book.   <br />	2004-10-25
US	53096020	R2L96HLCKAUUCU	0743463781	127829495	Remembering Sarah	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Left me breathless	I am not a big mystery fan but, once I picked up Remembering Sarah, I was hooked well into the late night.  I may not be the most astute mystery reviewer but a book that cannot be put down is well worth the accolades.  Mooney dips into every parent's fear, that of not knowing where one's child is.  Sarah's father, Mike, spends an eternity in the five years since his daughter's disappearance from a busy sledding hill searching for answers and confronting the corrections of the many suppositions in his life.  He is heedless in his quest for an admission of guilt from the only suspect, a dying defrocked priest. <br /> <br />Mooney's story is filled with people who are rarely what they first appear to be and he keeps the reader reeling with upset theories until the end when he slams him with a tale least suspected but understandable in today's overly political climate.  He draws Mike as a very complex character, driven by demons and guilt unknown to most of us, and tormented by professionals who continually let him down.  Only his visceral and unending drive to find the truth keeps him in the pursuit and provides the reader with a believable yet troubled ending.	2004-08-17
US	53096020	R30XUEEV9UZWC3	0345468570	799848414	The Botox Diaries	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Clears the mind, opens the pores.	Every once in a while, after reading too many non-fiction or other heavy books, it's refreshing to pick up a fun read to clear the cobwebs from the mind, kind of like having sorbet to clear the palate during a large meal. Botox Diaries ranks right up there with the best of such books -- with the added addition of laughs, very likable realistic characters, respectable writing, and a far-fetched world many of us would like to visit every now and then but not permanently.	2004-08-09
US	53096020	R30JX89IAN96KN	0767914376	631863372	Acquainted with the Night: A Parent's Quest to Understand Depression and Bipolar Disorder in His Children	Books	5	25	26	N	N	The best book I've ever read about mental illness	I stayed up much too late reading this absolutely riveting true account of a family falling apart from mental illness and a therapeutic community utterly unable to help. I'm not sure what was more frustrating -- the astoundingly awful parenting on both sides, the ineptitude of the therapists consulted along the way, or the dreadful societal pressures exerted upon middle-school children. And I won't even get into the awful state of the health insurance industry and how it exacerbates the very illnesses it is purported to help. I have never before read an account of such an appallingly dysfunctional family on just about every level, dysfunction that still exists in the almost-absent relationship between the father and his eldest son.  <br />  <br /> If ever two people were destined for destruction, the author and his wife are them. References are made to the classic symptoms of clinical depression displayed by the author's wife from the time she had her first child, but it's obvious she has never received adequate help. The passivity and inappropriate parenting that resulted combined with the outrageously immature and explosive anger of the father/author would cause even the healthiest children to implode. Raeburn is exceptionally honest about his own contributions to this harrowing story but, throughout, I just wanted to throttle him. Raeburn complains about his long work commute and how that impacted family interactions and even visiting his hospitalized children, yet he never took the most obvious step -- moving closer to work. I grew up in a suburb similar to Ridgewood and I know there are exceptional public schools much closer to the city. But Raeburn was too blinded by the cache of such a rarified and wealthy community to see the dangers. As it turned out, all the struggles to afford the &quot;great schools&quot; were for naught when it turns out the community is not healthy for children either.  <br />  <br /> Raeburn probably did not intend to question the educational and social philosophies for dealing with middle-school-aged children but, the more I read, the more I came to believe middle schools that separate out 6th, 7th, and 8th graders do more harm than good. The children no longer have older students as role models (good and bad) and no longer serve as role models themselves for younger students. Instead, hundreds of hormonally and emotionally unstable adolescents are set out to sea in a microcosm of insanity and left to feed off each other's craziness unchecked by any examples of the normalcy that both precedes them and usually awaits them on the other side. Maybe this is one reason children fare better in smaller K-12 private schools that are able to maintain some semblance of age-disparate families.  <br />  <br /> Raeburn never actually voices but nonetheless demonstrates with each escalating crisis another very apparent fact - there are as many opinions (or non-opinions) about how to help mentally ill children as there are psychiatrists, therapists, and medications. If the reader is to come away with only one very unsettling conclusion, it is that no one really knows what is wrong with your child, what causes it, or how to treat it. Accept this, do the best you can, and hope your child lives long enough to grow out of the worst of it, as the author's children did. I can only pray the author's children never have children of their own.  <br />  <br /> This is not a happy book with a satisfying ending but it is a very important book.	2004-08-06
US	53096020	R2R87Y1OE2OTSS	0415948304	777394390	Freaks, Geeks, and Cool Kids: American Teenagers, Schools, and the Culture of Consumption	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Reads like a Ph.D thesis	Although a very interesting sociological study, this book reads more like someone's doctoral thesis or a sociology textbook.  It's full of tiny print on shiny paper, interview and study results, footnotes -- very dry and detailed.  The precis is well-documented and explained that adolescent consumerism is fostered by the \\"in\\" teens themselves, not the other way around.  But the book makes it seem as if no teen can be more than a jerk if he/she attempts to avoid or scorn the dominant culture.  That's a sad commentary on the need to conform in an age of diversity and, we hope, increased tolerance.  This is a pretty heavy read, definitely not entertainment.	2004-07-06
US	53096020	RFLZ622LWWBOU	1400049393	697162591	Dispatches from a Not-So-Perfect Life: Or How I Learned to Love the House, the Man, the Child	Books	5	16	19	N	N	The subject that dare not speak its name	Although my children are now grown, I easily related to Fox's difficulties as a new mother.  I still have vivid memories of how utterly bored I was when I had just one child and how overwhelmingly depleted I felt when three more followed in close succession.  Although I wallowed in motherhood for the 13 years I stayed home with them, looking back now from the vantage point of working full-time, I don't know how I survived and remained sane (though some may argue with the latter).  <br />The one part of Fox's turmoils I related to most viscerally was  <BR>about the competitiveness of mothers to be seen by others as perfect.  Memories of me closely observing my children's playmates and their activities, clothes, toys, and books and then rushing to buy the same for mine, lest they fall behind or be permamently scarred somehow, still fill me with dread.  Why was I so compulsive?  I see some of that obsessiveness in those of my children who are now parents themselves and I am so tempted to to warn them; but I don't.  They don't seem as bad as I was and they are working mothers, which apparently staves off a lot of the problems Fox faced.<br />Fox readily observed that she dearly missed the adult-level discussions she had with her non-mother friends but it wasn't until I returned to the workforce that I realized how child-centric all my mother-friends and I were.  Before that, I was utterly blind to the drivel of our conversations.  No wonder I can't recall much of presidential elections, the state of the economy, and congressional legislation during the seventies and most of the eighties.  It wasn't, as I had always thought, that the state of the world during those decades wasn't so interesting; I simply was not inclined to be well-informed of anything not related to child-rearing.<br />Fox does not offer any solutions to the predicaments of mothers like us but simply acknowledging the problems and their sources renders the shadows of depression during early motherhood much more manageable.  Fox also suggests that, as soon as possible and as much as possible, mothers of young children must re-establish themselves in the world outside constant parenthood -- not only for their own sanity but also for the benefit of their children who will then not always have to have a crazy mother.	2004-04-15
US	53096020	R26SUJLGFZVS5W	1400060869	884867374	Present Value: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great book, not so great ending	I would really give this 4 1/2 stars were I able.  I loved every page in this book until the last few.  The ending left me feeling as if there should be more. It was too pat, almost contrived, a bit as if the author were pressed to simply end it.  But the author's descriptions of corporate life (non-life is more accurate) are right on and his depiction of the frustrated company president as he grasps to hang onto his options is hysterical, especially in light of all the Enrons, Worldcoms, and SEC scams we read about daily.  It's very scary to realize this is a true account of a fictional company, that a company's lifeline is so connected to the stock market that a series of planned but nefarious trades could be its permanent downfall.<br />I disagree with a previous reviewer who didn't understand the presence of Ronnie in the story.  This book is significantly deeper than one would initially believe.  Ronnie is the road that could be taken.  I highly recommend this book.	2003-10-14
US	53096020	R2K9FKGYB94L0N	0060537795	913636844	Red Zone: The Behind-the-Scenes Story of the San Francisco Dog Mauling	Books	4	14	20	N	N	Fascinating book on many levels	I am surprised by all the negative reviews here.  This is an engrossing, detailed look at more than just the event that hit the news (the actual dog mauling death of Diane Whipple, which was, indeed, tragic and preventable).  The incredible descriptions of what goes on in the maximum security prison at Pelican Bay brings the HBO series &quot;Oz&quot; to life in a way most people never imagine can be true.  If it can be so easy to breed killer dogs from prison, what other nefarious deeds are being committed daily by those whom we think are locked up and isolated from outside resources?  <br />Moreover, the frightening depictions of dogs long bred for their fighting abilities should make many potential dog owners wary of what they purchase as family pets.  Though killer dogs are made by bad people, several canine breeds are notoriously untrustworthy around people, especially children and strangers, and, when even accidentaly provoked, are likely to bring their instincts to the fore.  When owners of such dogs say, &quot;I didn't know he could be dangerous&quot; or &quot;he never bit anyone before&quot;, they are either stupendously uninformed or lying.<br />This book was not written to glorify the sadly unfulfilled potential of Ms. Whipple but rather to throw a light upon underground worlds few of us are aware even exist.  I came away surprisingly quite educated by the author's obvious deep research and gripping tale.	2003-07-28
US	53096020	R28AFMTQ5T9SAD	0446528579	952928905	Born to Steal: When the Mafia Hit Wall Street	Books	4	15	16	N	N	I couldn't put this down!	I was just going to skim this book because I wasn't sure I was interested in the topic.  Before I knew it, I was more than half-way through it.  This compellingly readable expose of Wall Street and the role of the Mafia is shuddering.  The naivete of the &quot;hicks&quot; who bought non-existent or worthless stocks is a real eye-opener.  I wonder now if the incredible rise of the stock market in the late 90's was all a myth based on scams, lies, and outright stealing by bullies who wouldn't know a legitimate stock if it hit them over the head.  Every market investor needs to read this book.	2003-07-09
US	53096020	RBRFT41O5LB23	0761126910	328514543	Sleepaway: The Girls of Summer and Camps They Love	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A10-star book for all women who ever went to sleepaway camp!	Open this book and you will be hit instantly with the smells and sounds of piney cabins, iron bunk beds, quiet hour, grace sung before meals, campfires, swimming buddies, skinny dipping after dark, whispers in the night, and more.  If you're like me, the best summers of your life will come spinning back gloriously.  Filled with instantly recognizable pictures of campers in those dreadful uniforms that made dressing so quick and easy -- white shirts, dark bloomer-like shorts, and satin neckties -- all happily sharing experiences and friendships we'll never ever forget.  Nostalgia never tasted so good!  This book is for every woman who was once a girl who, as soon as school was out in June, packed her metal trunk and sent it off with the Railway Express man as she took a sleeper car train trip to the New England woods for an unforgettable, carefree eight weeks of making lanyards and ashtrays (!), passing swim tests, singing silly songs we still remember the words to, playing hares and hounds and color wars, liking chipped beef on toast, loving  storms that blew rain through the cabin screens, washing our hair in the lake, crying at the final campfire.  I want to track down every camp friend from 13 years at 6 different camps and show them this book.	2003-07-03
US	53096020	RWF4N6QB0W735	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Unexpectedly  over-rated	Readers of this book ought to remember that work is, at most, one-third of their lives, something this book ignores. While it is wonderful to have a job that not only supports oneself financially but spiritually and intellectually as well, dwelling on acquiring this is short-sighted.  One who is fulfilled in the hours during which he or she is not working can also achieve a happy and meaningful life.  I got the impression from Bronson's vignettes of 50 people seeking life's meaning in their employment that they were so focused on what was wrong with their jobs (or lives) that they are unable to move forward. Rather than attempting to remedy what they perceived was wrong, they simply quit their jobs or became unable to find jobs.<br />I was especially frustrated by the several people who quit their lifelong dreams of studying or practicing medicine. Responsible people don't have dreams like that and then precipitously decide after only a few months that it was the wrong dream.  One realized she hated sick people.  Well, there are plenty of medical and medically-related fieIds that do not entail dealing with patients.  Another quit after glimpsing an older doctor who allowed her practice to negate her family.  Instead of abrupting quitting and then wasting precious time determining where to go next, these women, in particular, needed to first look for alternatives within the system they chose that would allow them to moderate their dreams and ambitions with reality.<br />Bronson reminds me of David Eggers who amazingly earned a Pultizer with &quot;A Heart-breaking Work of Staggering Genius&quot;.  Both books display immature writers dealing with puerile subjects in a very simplistic and unrealistic manner. Although pursuing career perfection may be admirable, real life does not stop during the quest.  Bronson's stories ignore that fact.	2003-06-20
US	53096020	R303P8X2A62TCY	0805071547	983206039	Reclaiming Childhood: Letting Children Be Children in Our Achievement-Oriented Society	Books	4	18	42	N	N	Good but goes too far	I agree with the author's complaints that early childhood is not sufficiently appreciated or recognized by educators as something to be nurtured, explored, and extended but I disagree with her continuation of this complaint into later childhood.  It's sad that kindergartners are now expected to read, add and subtract, and do homework.  But, at some point, children must realize that all learning is predicated upon knowing certain basic facts intuitively such as multiplication tables, some historical dates, historical events and people, grammar basics, and other things that can only be memorized.  Learning those is not always fun or creative but it is necessary for a literate population.  The author believes otherwise -- she believes that all education must first and foremost begin at each individual child's level and that educators must follow the child, not the child the curriculum. I thought that kind of individualized, do your own thing, education ended after the educational farces of the 60's and 70's when children could be enormously creative but could not read or write. <br />Children today are not as well educated or informed as children were in our parent's generation.  Few, if any, fads du jour have lasted more than a few years.  Parents, instead of demanding serious work from their children, belittle homework, tests, and hard work that interferes with their children's extracurricular activities, and TV and computer time.  Teachers give in to the parents because, to do otherwise, is to risk losing their jobs because they're \\"too tough\\".   Spare me!  Most educated parents can remember that they learned the most from their toughest, most demanding, teachers, not the ones who gave everyone A's for effort.  Parents who enforce appreciation for learning through perspiration tend to have the best educated and most successful children.	2003-05-12
US	53096020	R6AKINZR4OJIY	0674010558	359442737	The Early Admissions Game: Joining the Elite	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Don't apply to college before reading this!	This is an excellent expose of the game of college admissions as played mostly by the wealthiest and and most sophisticated prospective students who know about early decision programs.  This book is, therefore, a must-read for every high school guidance counselor and parent of a child going to college, especially those who believe elite college admissions are extended only to the best qualified.<br />The only criticism of early admission I have some disagreement with is one emphasized frequently in the book -- that first semester high school seniors who apply early do not have time to sufficiently research potential colleges and know which will be the best fits for them.  Information about colleges should be gathered during the student's junior year and, by September or October of his senior year, he/she should have a a good enough idea of what is reasonable to attain and what he/she wants in a college to be able to choose one above all others -- if early decision is something that student wants.  The difference in application deadlines is only two months, not enough to make a significant difference for the serious-minded student.  If that student wants Princeton more than any other college and, if Princeton fills 60% of its class from early applicants, it would be foolish for that student to wait until January to apply.  That may not be the ideal situation but it is the reality.	2003-05-12
US	53096020	RE1LN5CWS92EP	0066211662	821071553	The Bitch in the House: 26 Women Tell the Truth About Sex, Solitude, Work, Motherhood, and Marriage	Books	3	45	52	N	N	Too much and too little	I was enthralled when I started this book of reflections by female writers on love, marriage, sex, and motherhood but towards the end it did become tiresome, as another reviewer said. It was just more of the same. No one was truly happy giving up the single life for a shared one with a man; the woman, despite her best intentions, always became &quot;the wife&quot; and an unequal partner. The one woman who had a husband who was truly fully engaged in fatherhood jealously competed with him for the child's attention.    Another failing was that all the women are fairly young with very young children. I wanted to see the same reflection from the perspective of older women whose children are grown and establishing their own lives. I daresay the stories would be quite a bit different when the authors are not so immersed in the experiences about which they are writing.   If I had read this book while still single, I would have found the stories of women feeling so trapped in expectations quite depressing.	2003-04-04
US	53096020	R39QHKRW0VHXF6	0449234738	199678848	The Search for Anna Fisher	Books	5	12	14	N	N	I can still feel her yearning	This was the first book I read about an adoptee searching for &quot;someone who looks like me&quot; and it made me viscerally understand the yearning most adoptees have, despite the most loving adoptive parents and most fulfilling lives.  They are always aware that there is someone out there with a truly vested interest in what became of them.  This beautifully written addictively readable autobiography of a search made me realize that some form of open adoption is the healthiest adoption for the child and both sets of parents, even if they do not fully accept this at the beginning.  Consciously ignoring one of life's basic assumptions, that of knowing the people who led to one's very creation, should never be attained without the full knowledge and consent of ALL parties, and most especially the one who is the focus of the new family.	2003-04-04
US	53096020	R2L9WEWBKASYYQ	158648138X	14000679	Pipe Dreams: Greed, Ego, and the Death of Enron	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An important book	Pipe Dreams is a wonderful addition to Brian Cruver's &quot;Anatomy of Greed&quot; but Pipe Dreams provides a lot more explanatory detail that almost any reader will find unsettling.  The explanation that the leaders of Enron deliberately set out, with malice of forethought, to pull off elaborate scams on employees, clients, and investors would read like fiction if we hadn't been reading the news.  The book serves as a cautionary tale to all investors to not believe everything you read from even the most creditable sources.  I couldn't put this book down and yearn to read more.	2003-01-27
US	53096020	R5LCMHARW1OAZ	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	0	5	N	Y	I can't get this out of my head	Very few books take up permanent residence in my mind but this one certainly does.  For anyone who has ever lost a loved one, this story will provide comfort and solace; you will dearly wish it is true (and maybe it is).  Beautifully written, it reads almost like a poem.  Some readers are put off by a part that may seem farfetched (I won't give away details) but for Susie it wiped away the ugliness and replaced with it with the beauty she deserves.  Don't miss reading this book.	2002-11-26
US	53096020	R3KNPMZY4NZ64Y	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	1	23	53	N	N	I can't believe this got a good review!	This book started out well but ended in a thud of nothingness.  The ending made no sense but the book fell out of favor about half-way through.  I suspect people say they love Atonement solely to make people think they read &quot;serious&quot; fiction.  A waste of valuable time.	2002-11-26
US	53096020	R37HW1MWRN739W	0385334168	982738568	Paradise Park	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A disappointment	It took me awhile to figure out what I thought of this book which also made me realize it wasn't nearly as enjoyable as Kaaterskill Falls. I finally decided the heroine was extremely annoying.  I expected her to become an adult long before she reached 40 for G-d's sake.  The book is 20 years of meanderings of a selfish clueless girl whose supposedly deep spiritual thoughts and yearnings are far shallower than they first appear and whose character is never fully fleshed out.  She never becomes anyone you would even remotely want to spend any time with.  Although she eventually marries and has a child, you suspect no learning has occured and nothing ever changes.	2001-06-25
US	53096020	RVKGAMA8MI6NG	0316693294	265763987	Cat and Mouse (Alex Cross Novels)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Patterson's latest will keep you awake until you're done.	This was another outrageously gruesome (and I mean that with all good intentions) thriller pitting  Alex Cross against his old protagonist Gary Soneji and another equally as bad villian for good measure. No one does psychopaths better than Patterson. I am only sad that Soneji is gone for good.  Or is he?	1997-11-25
