US	53090059	R2PRZCKG4B8URK	055358751X	49710440	Scardown	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Bear tops her debut with an even better novel.	Hammered sucked you into Bear's future world of climate change, cyberware and strange technologies of dubious origin, Scardown ratchets up the tension a few more notches.<br /><br />Giving little concession to those who did not read the first, Scardown gives us MORE.  Alien technology influenced spacecraft. Space Warfare.  Nanotechnology.  Artificial Intelligences.  And characters we care about.<br /><br />Its no wonder that Bear won the John Campbell award for best new writer at the 2005 Hugo Awards.  If you've not read Hammered, go read that, and you will want to read this.  And if you did read Hammered, its likely you don't need me to sell you on reading this book, save for me to tell you that its not as good as Hammered.<br /><br />It's BETTER.	2005-08-24
US	53090059	R4995TLT4IRR9	0451458435	279127262	Dreamer: A Novel of the Silent Empire	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Interesting first novel combining space opera and dreams	Dreamer, by Steven Harper<br />Players in my games and acquainted with my RPG characters know that dreams are a theme I enjoy.  Dreamer is unusual in that it is a melding of space opera and these themes and many of the ideas that I employ in my games are coincidentally mirrored here.  All sentient minds are connected to a plane of existence called the Dream, and a few individuals can access this plane for communication, and sometimes more.<br />The plot revolves around twin axes...the story of a young powerful dream sought by various sides, and a blight on the Dream itself.  Interesting characterization and intriguing characters add to the unusual locales, both in and out of the Dream.  In our time of tumult about such things, I was pleasantly surprised at the tenderness of a same-sex relationship as depicted in the book.<br />There are problems with pacing, its clearly the first book in a series, and some of the action of the book feels padded, and the ending clearly is ready to ramp up to sequels.  These structural difficulties, while noticeable, do not greatly impact the enjoyment of the novel.  The ideas, worlds and milieu carry the novel successfully.<br />Recommended.	2004-03-10
US	53090059	R3F5GAZ4Z2RWTC	0765341956	613572052	Psychohistorical Crisis	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Thematic sequel to Asimov's Foundation Novels	Psychohistorical Crisis, by Donald Kingsbury<br />A few years ago, the Asimov estate authorized three Foundation novels, by Gregory Benford, Greg Bear and David Brin.  I stopped reading that series after the first, when I realized Benford rehashed and imported large portions of two novellas of his to make up the bulk of that book.<br />Psychohistorical Crisis is a different kettle of fish.  Not an authorized sequel or officially set in the Asimov universe, it nevertheless is understood to take place in a world very much like that.  Names are changed.  Earth is Rith, Trantor is Splendid Wisdom.  But the universe is here.  The time is the Second Empire, the one set up after the Interrgenum by the psychohistorians.  We get a look at the galaxy under their rule.<br />Although jumping a few viewpoints and characters and time frames, the story focuses around a psychohistorian, Eron Osa, and the consequences of his crime that he cannot remember.  But there is much more at work.  We see his life history, and many points of major characters connected to him.  As psychohistory is a fusion of history and mathematics, there are helpings of both in this book.<br />Dense is a good way to describe the book.  It moves patiently and slowly, and I get the feeling the book itself has been cut, since some viewpoint characters have oddly truncated end-games.  But the journey there is immersive, and Kingsbury makes you feel the age of the Empire.  And his central thesis about psychohistory is fascinating.<br />Its not light reading by any means, but nevertheless its recommended.  A caveat: reading or being familiar with Asimov's Foundation universe will make the experience richer and worthwhile.  I wouldn't read this book without having at least sampled the original ur-text.	2004-03-10
US	53090059	R1B5LVWNA9WMM4	0446607010	401508883	The False House	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Inferior sequel to the High House	The False House, by James Stoddard<br />Sequel to The High House, the book continues the story of Evermere, the House that makes up worlds, and its Lord, Carter Anderson.<br />Whereas the first book both showed the growth of Carter into the role of Lord, and gave us an overview of the weird world of the House, this second book presents him in the full of his power.<br />Not quite knowing what to do with this, we are presented with a kidnapping of the Lord's soon to be bride's sister, and a trip to a strange, twisted, growing replica of the original House. If you might guess that his powers, gained at cost in the first book do not work well once he reaches this second, false House, well you would be right.<br />This book itself feels like the False House to the real one does.  Instead of the wonder and magic of the first book, this one feels darker and tastes fouller.  There is extensive reference to Wuthering Heights, a novel which I have not read.  Characterization is strangely stilted and nowhere near as smooth and interesting as the first.  The alienness and creepiness of the more powerful beings, Lady Order, the Lord of Chaos, and Jormungandr  are diminished here.<br />The whole book feels like an unnecessary exercise which diminishes the first.<br />Definitely not recommended.	2004-03-10
US	53090059	R1TJL3T48ERAVL	038070871X	469575403	Chase the Morning	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fantasy and adventure on the High Seas.	Chase the Morning, by Michael Scott Rohan<br />Steve is a Import/Export executive in a nameless British city.  His impulsiveness, curiosity, and good turn to a stranger lead him to learn of a greater and more magical world just around the corner from our own.  Our world, the Core is the center point of a seemingly limitless sea of lands of magic and adventure.<br />Voodoo, strange magic, demigods, and sea adventure a la Horatio Hornblower are the order of the day, as Steve, at first unwillingly, learns more about this strange secret outer world on its magical high seas.<br />Hollow inside, Steve grows and learns what it is to be a man and take responsibility through his adventures with his odd, new companions.  Certainly, the book at its main is the trope of &quot;modern man thrown into a fantasy world&quot; but the intersection of those worlds, their dependence on each other, and the vividness of the descriptions (especially the battle scenes) make the novel work.  I know now why my friend Scott seeks out novels from this British author, even though they can prove difficult and expensive to obtain here in the states.<br />Recommended.	2004-03-10
US	53090059	R2X8PVXE8HFPNX	0553109200	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	Robinson explores a "world without europe"	Back in the 13th and 14th centuries, Europe was moving toward the High Middle Ages. The italianate city states were just starting their roads to power. Byzantium had reached a new apogee under Basil II. The christian kingdoms of Spain were starting their long Reconquista. Europe was still a backwater compared to most of the rest of the world, but the seeds for greatness were there.<br />In our history, the Black Death, the plague that spread through Europe in that era was a calamity, killing an estimated 25% of the population. It changed the course of history, as, for a time, it eased the crushing lives of peasants who suddenly found themselves in fewer numbers, and able to wield some power to relieve, at least a bit, the conditions imposed on them from Nobility. More people moved to the cities, and helped to increase the numbers of the forerunners of the bourgeoisie.<br />What would have happened, though, if the Black Death was even worse than this? It's not a new theme in Science Fiction, Robert Silverberg's The Gate of Worlds posited a world where the Black Death killed more than half of Europe's population, leaving it open to Turkish conquest, and a world where Europe was a backwater compared to the powerful kingdoms of Africa, Asia and the Americas of the Aztecs. L Neil Smith's The Crystal Empire posited a backfiring attempt on the part of Christian Europe to export the plague to the Saracens, and thus precipiating plague on Europe far greater than in our history.<br />Robinson decides to do one better. His plague is far worse than either of these, his plague depopulates Europe entirely, except for a few isolated islands. Europe becomes an charnel house, empty land, and it is left for other powers to march forward in history--China, Dar es Islam, India, and the Iroquois. His narrative covers about 750 years, from the Golden Horde's discovery of the depopulated Europe, to a late 21st century (although the Christian calendar is not used) endcap. Christianity just about disappears, with Islam, Confucianism, Buddhism and a few Zoroastrians (Zotts) as the remaining world religions.<br />Such long time spans are something even Harry Turtledove would face with trepidation, and so Robinson relies on a Buddhist concept to tie the ten novellas that make up the book together. In his world, the Buddhist concepts of the bardo, the afterlife between reincarnations, and the jati, the idea that souls come together again and again throughout incarnations. Thus, through the novel, Robinson has these characters meet and interact again and again, using the literary device of common first letters to help us keep it all straight (he even explicitly spells out the literary convention in the last novella, perhaps just for those who didn't \\"get it\\"). Thus, we have the K's, who are aggressive, passionate people, always testing boundaries, moving forward. The B's are more introspective, salts of the earth, perhaps more spiritual. The I's are the intelligensia, the thinkers, the idea people. There are a few other letters who appear less frequently and consistently as well.<br />This allows Robinson to set the ten portions of the book widely disseminated in time and space in his alternate world, and we get a few scenes in the bardo as well. We see the characters sold as slaves to 15h century China, as proto-scientists in Samarkand, as a half-Japanese admiral who discovers Yingzhou (The Americas) to meet a young native girl he feels a connection to, and other such venues. Thus the novel does rise and fall on the strength of these stories, not all of them are equally compelling, I am reminded of, for example, Poul Anderson's Boat of a Million Years in this regard.<br />Throughout the book, though, are other pleasures. We get to see discoveries and inventions from our own history, transmorgified in his alternate world. Everything from the Little Ice Age to the discovery of the colecanth. Some might argue that a world without Europe might not have industrialized on anything like the schedule it did in our own history, but I think that might be a bit of Eurocentric bias. After reading The Rise of the West, I do realize that, before the year 1500, China was far more powerful and potent than many people realize, and without Europe, both it and the world of Islam...why wouldn't they have discovered the Western Hemisphere, plunder their gold, invent industrialization?<br />I think I've missed some things, too, and I would like to see a concordance. For example, the first novella uses a literary device at the end of each chapter that seems to echo Buddhist stories \\"and we will find out in the next chapter\\". Another novella, which I think is the pivot point in the book because from it derives the title, uses Chinese style \\"commentaries\\". The nature and description of the bardo seems to be tied to the ascendant religion or ethos at that time in his history, too.<br />Its a book which is much easier to admire than to read and re-read, I think, but its definitely in the top tier of the books published last year, and probably one of the most ambitious alternate history novels I have read, or perhaps even SF novels in general. I recommend waiting for the paperback which will come out in early summer, I know some of you will love this, and others not to your taste. If you like alternate history, and you've already been exposed to and like Robinson's style (eg. Antarctica, or the Mars novels, or the Orange County novels), then I heartily recommend the Years of Rice and Salt.strialized on anything like the schedule it did in our own history, but I think that might be a bit of Eurocentric bias. After reading The Rise of the West, I do realize that, before the year 1500, China was far more powerful and potent than many people realize, and without Europe, both it and the world of Islam...why wouldn't they have discovered the Western Hemisphere, plunder their gold, invent industrialization?<br />I think I've missed some things, too, and I would like to see a concordance. For example, the first novella uses a literary device at the end of each chapter that seems to echo Buddhist stories \\"and we will find out in the next chapter\\". Another novella, which I think is the pivot point in the book because from it derives the title, uses Chinese style \\"commentaries\\". The nature and description of the bardo seems to be tied to the ascendant religion or ethos at that time in his history, too. <br />Its a book which is much easier to admire than to read and re-read, I think, but its definitely in the top tier of the books published last year, and probably one of the most ambitious alternate history novels I have read, or perhaps even SF novels in general. I recommend waiting for the paperback which will come out in early summer, I know some of you will love this, and others not to your taste. If you like alternate history, and you've already been exposed to and like Robinson's style (eg. Antarctica, or the Mars novels, or the Orange County novels), then I heartily recommend the Years of Rice and Salt.	2003-02-02
US	53090059	R1L2HYZDGV4VYU	0446610623	517423369	Futures: Four Novellas	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A quartet of British SF authors show their stuff	This volume is somewhat different than the usual flurry of anthologies that come out, especially during the holiday season, on two counts.<br />First, it is a British import, and thus the authors represented, while to varying degrees familiar to most of the rest of the world, really are British in tone and outlook.<br />Second, rather than stories, this volume has the longer novella form for the stories, and thus there is one story apiece.  SF seems to be the last bastion of this &quot;not quite short story, not quite novel&quot; length work, and the virtues of the form are admirably displayed here.<br />The first story is Peter F. Hamilton's WATCHING TREES GROW.  Although far better known for his Reality Dysfunction space opera, Hamilton has written detective SF before (The Mindstar Rising novels) and this is another example, with a twist...it is set in an alternate history where Heinleinian long-lived families vie for power and influence, and that is just the backdrop to a murder mystery.<br />The second story is REALITY DUST by Stephen Baxter. Unlike Hamilton, Baxter's story is set in his trademark universe, the &quot;Xeelee Sequence&quot;.  This is set after the Qax Domination, where their former collaborator-lackeys seek escape from the freed peoples of Earth in a rather unusual escape route.<br />MAKING HISTORY, by Paul McAuley is set in a more standard &quot;near future&quot; solar system, in the aftermath of a war...and even if it is true that history is written by the victors, that history can sometimes be rather muddled in the making.<br />The last story is TENDELEO'S STORY by Ian MacDonald.  Like the Baxter, it is set in a trademark world of his, the &quot;Chaga stories&quot;, where a strange alien life (nanotech? technolife?) has started to colonize the Earth, beginning with Africa.  This story, like his other novels and stories, focuses more on the people affected by the Chaga, much more so than the actual event itself.<br />All four of these stories are strong, but of course, tastes may vary.  The stories do range a far chunk of SF, and it is very possible that while you might like two or three, you may not like all four (personally, I liked the Baxter the best and the McDonald the least). Thus, the 4 star rating.  Still, all in all, if you are at all interested in what the best British SF writers are doing, this paperback is perfect for the purpose.ories are strong, but of course, tastes may vary.  The stories do range a far chunk of SF, and it is very possible that while you might like two or three, you may not like all four (personally, I liked the Baxter the best and the McDonald the least). Thus, the 4 star rating.   Still, all in all, if you are at all interested in what the best British SF writers are doing, this paperback is perfect for the purpose.	2001-12-13
US	53090059	R3THY4KB77BDPX	0786708875	840830330	The Mammoth Encyclopedia of Science Fiction (Mammoth Books)	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	A British, fannish view of the field of SF	I bought this book sight unseen or without even a description, since i do love things SF.  Upon opening and beginning to read it, I realized that it wasn't quite what I expected.<br />First of all, its from England, which is not a bad thing at all, but it does mean that British authors have a more prominent and highlighted presence in this work than Americans are accustomed to reading about.  Iain Banks and Stephen Baxter have pretty big entries, for example, and George R.R. Martin has none at all.<br />And second, it was written by a fan for a fan (admitted in the first paragraph of the preface).  I had been expecting something like the big encyclopedias out there, done by an editor or a writer that I had simply not heard of.  So, the viewpoint is different, and much more subjective than you might expect. You won't find cold and clinical analysis of the entries.  This can be a good thing, if you don't mind the presence of the author bias.<br />The Encyclopedia itself is broken up into several parts.  After a preface, Mann discusses the origins and history of SF. The next section, the longest, discusses selected authors.  The subsequent section looks at SF in movies and TV.  Much like the Encyclopedia of SF, Mann has a goodly section on thematic entries, as well.  Finally, he finishes the work with a look at SF societies and awards and such, and has a substantial section on internet resources. Although the hazards of the Internet make such sections perilously prone to being outdated, it was a pleasure to see one here.  The book is cross-referenced quite well, too. Those looking for a large, exhaustive encyclopedia on the order of the John Clute Encyclopedia of Science Fiction (or his one for Fantasy) should look elsewhere. If you want a more idiosyncratic view, with a British slant on authors and SF in general,this may be more of your cup of tea. And it IS cheaper and more intimate than the other monster SF encyclopedias on the market. It was not what I expected, but I am well satisfied with the Mammoth Encyclopedia of SF.t I am well satisfied with the Mammoth Encyclopedia of SF.	2001-08-20
US	53090059	R2YVOZI2A0LCEJ	0380975173	882973554	Shrine of Stars: The Third Book of Confluence (Confluence Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Capstone of McAuley's Far future epic	At the end of book two, we've left Yama, our hero,  at the mercy of his heretic enemy Dr. Dismas, and seemingly without hope of escape, even as his faithful friend Pandaras struggles to find and free him. So begins the final volume of Confluence.  The Great River continues to dry up, the factions of Heretic and Prefect Corin's Department continue their war...and Yama slowly changes from the pawn that he was, to a far greater importance on the &quot;board&quot;.  McAuley does a credible job tying up most of the loose ends and brings Yama's story full circle.  We learn at last the nature of Confluence, and get a look at why the Preservers built it, and what its ultimate fate should be.<br />Its a bit of a criticism on an otherwise magnificent work, but I think the last half of the book relies TOO much on tropes from Gene Wolfe's Book of the New Sun novels, especially URTH OF THE NEW SUN.<br />By the end of the book, however, this reviewer was more than satisfied with the arc of Yama's story. Even with mining the same terrain as Wolfe, the Confluence series is a far easier read--more SF, less allegory.<br />One last editorial bit. I bought the first and subsequent books of Confluence in hardcover since they were published in that &quot;small, $14 edition&quot; that made getting a hardcover practical. I wish more publishers would publish books this way. Confluence was a definite keeper and I look forward to re-reading it more than once.	2001-05-16
US	53090059	R15FO64ET7QOUA	0451456394	334839526	Steel Rose	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A more contemporary remake of War for the Oaks	From what I understand, Kara Dalkey is a friend of Emma Bull's...and so I understand, having read War for the Oaks, where Dalkey got many of her ideas for this novel...namely her friend's earlier novel. (Which by the way is being reprinted in Summer 2001).<br />The setting is Pittsburgh rather than Minneapolis...the heroine is a Performance Artist, not the singer in a band, and she deals primarily with Unseelie rather than the Sidhe Court. But many of the concepts and 'vocabulary' are the same, or subtly different.<br />Thus it loses a star for basic originality, but it is well done for what it sets out to do. I do recommend those who are interested in reading both read the Bull book and then this...it makes more sense to see the evolution of the concept that way.	2001-02-21
US	53090059	R1YFTJPGKJDLRZ	0684855968	381262331	From Aristotle to Zoroaster: An a to Z Companion to the Classical World	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Cotterell casts a broad net on the Classical World	Similar to other dictionaries on the Classical World, From Aristotle to Zoroaster has some points which make it stand out from many of the others.<br />First its accessible. This dictionary is NOT directed at the classical scholar, or even a classics major in College (although both of them would appreciate this work).  Its target is the lay reader and assumes only that you have a passing familiarity with ancient history.<br />Second, it casts a broad net.  Most works of this time center themselves around the Mediterranean, but Cotterell has entries for points as far as China and India.  His reasoning for including these (ie. none of these civilizations, including the Greek were in isolation from each other) is a good one, and I found myself interested in &quot;what the Indians were doing&quot; at the same time as the more familiar events in Greece, Rome and the Mediterranean region.<br />The book's maps and tables are well done, and give great overviews of the period .  The illustrations, which are numerous, are well done, too.  Although some of the entries seem a bit idiosyncratic (like &quot;INVENTIONS&quot;), by and large, this is an excellent work, and highly recommended to anyone with an interest in the period.	2000-12-27
US	53090059	RA8A3KQNG6KJG	0312890621	749199652	The Quantum Rose (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Another novel in the Skolian Empire--that you may have seen	This is, in fact, an already published novel of Ms. Asaro's, serialized in Analog last year.<br />With that said in mind, I do not want to spoil the novel overmuch, but this is, in fact, another science fiction/romance that Ms. Asaro is turning out rather well these days. I admit that her Primary Inversion was the first novel I have ever read that could be considered romance, and then devoured the next two novels in her Skolian Empire milieu.  I then read this when it was serialized in Analog last year.<br />Her strengths of characterization of female characters, excellent world building and intriguing situations are all present in the Quantum Rose.  You will fall in love with Kamoj and Vyrl's story and perhaps even sympathize with Jax, the man who believes that Kamoj is his by right.<br />The Skolian novels can be read in any order and the Quantum Rose particularly can be read out of sequence with the planet-hopping novels.  You can certainly do worse than to start here if you have not sampled Ms. Asaro's work...and if you already have, you probably don't need this review to convince you to pick this one up too.	2000-11-24
US	53090059	R3OFNHUOBO74CF	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Mr. Carr turns from the Past, to the Future	Caleb Carr is an author far better known for his novels set in 19th Century New York (ie, The Alienist) than anything else.  So I was very surprised earlier this year when Time began serializing the first chapters of this novel.<br />As a reader of science fiction, I was skeptical. What i was reading was clearly science fiction, even if it is not labelled explicitly as such (and indeed, its not listed here as SF).  I at first dismissed the whole idea as a silly stunt from an author who probably would get the speculative science very very wrong.<br />And it turned out that I was very wrong.  I became fascinated with the exploits of Dr. Wolfe, the alluring but deadly Larissa Tressalian, and her brillant and sickly brother Malcolm.  I looked forward to the publication of the full hardcover novel and grabbed it immediately.<br />Although the promise of the first chapters suffers a bit, in my opinion in the later portions of the book, all in all, I was satisfied with Killing Time.<br />It really IS science fiction, even if it isn't labelled as such.  More importantly, though, its GOOD Science Fiction.<br />Try it.	2000-11-08
US	53090059	R1D30K1GYN0SLG	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hugo award winning sequel to a Hugo winning classic	A DEEPNESS IN THE SKY was selected as the 2000 Hugo Award winner for best  SF Novel!<br />My statement in the title is a bit inaccurate however, since  Deepness is really more of a prequel than a sequel to A Fire Upon the Deep,  the (tied) Hugo Award winning novel for 1993.<br />This time, however, Vinge  won the Hugo in a standalone fashion, and deservedly so.  Thematically it  is very different than its predecessor...as other reviews have said, it is  definitely NOT space Opera.  It's a first contact novel, an exploration of  varieties of humanity...its science fiction at its best.<br />A review of one  of Vinge's novels predicted that he might win the Nobel Prize for  Literature someday. (unprecedented for a SF writer). With novels like A  DEEPNESS IN THE SKY, I can believe it possible.	2000-09-13
US	53090059	R1PLRL193O9N8R	0312263260	995250243	The Furthest Horizon: SF Adventures to the Far Future	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A stellar Far, Far Future SF stories collection	Gardner Dozois collects a fine assortment of really far future SF stories in one of his best anthologies to date.<br />The theme of &quot;far far  future&quot; is handled in many diverse ways, as the stories themselves  were written over almost fifty years.<br />Jack Vance has an excerpt from his  Dying Earth series...and Paul McAuley has a prequel to his  &quot;Confluence&quot; novels. In between lie classics like Pohl's satiric  Day Million, Silverberg's Nightwings and a story related to Gene Wolfe's  Book of the Sun series. And many others, from authors like Michael Moorcock  and Poul Anderson.<br />All in all, this is one of the best SF anthologies I  have yet read.	2000-08-16
US	53090059	R11LPZDTEPR2RI	074340372X	86038515	Corona (Star Trek)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Greg Bear boldly ventures into Star Trek	Long before he was tapped to write a novel set in the Star Wars universe,  Greg Bear turned in this novel, a Star Trek novel.<br />While his  characterization of the Star Trek characters (both new and the characters  we know and love) is adequate, he really shines in world-building, in the  nature of the &quot;problem&quot;.<br />For once a Star Trek novel where the  Klingons aren't going to conquer the quadrant, or the Romulans hatch yet  another scheme, or any of the usually overworn tropes.<br />You'll wish,upon  reading, that it was made into an episode, or even a movie.	2000-08-10
US	53090059	RG1NG1BT9KQSJ	0312874952	564287087	Timegods' World	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Two out of print Modesitt novels return together	Timegods' World unites two early 90's novels by Modesitt, Timediver's Dawn, and the Timegod.  These novels chronicle the adventures of time travelers and time manipulators, set against a panoply of environments and  milieus ranging from the primitive to the far-future.<br />The novels make  extensive literary use of Norse names, as you will discover names like  Odin-Thor, Hemidall, and of course the central character Loki.  Plenty of  other amusing references await you, such as the &quot;Witches of  Eastron.&quot;<br />While I prefer Modesitt's fantasy novels, this compliation  was a good and pleasurable read.	2000-07-24
US	53090059	R1KRA16KW9C7OR	0886778239	20220539	Legends: Tales from the Eternal Archives #1	Books	3	4	39	N	N	A decent collection of fantasy stories	Legends is the first of Margaret Weis' thematically linked stories from &quot;The Eternal Archives.&quot;  The linked material is a very slender and slight suggestion that all of the stories are culled from a mystical  Library.<br />The Stories themselves range in tone and subject, from  Lindskold's treatment of a Chinese mythological fable of the white tiger to  stories of subjects as diverse in subject as Ancient Egypt, and a  water-nymph infatuated with a U-boat Captain.<br />A decidedly mixed bag of  tales, slightly better than average on the whole.	2000-07-12
US	53090059	R1BAQUF3QDSCPS	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	4	38	46	N	N	Greg Bear boldly ventures into Robin Cook territory	(Note that this is substantially the same review as I wrote for the hardcover edition of the novel)<br />Greg Bear is a SF writer with an excellent range. While his novels uniformly show a joy in describing  unusual and exotic extensions of science as we know it, from the  nanotechnology of Blood Music to the unusual physics of Moving Mars, he has  always kept the human element front and center in his writings. We care  about the people who inhabit his worlds. Darwin's Radio is a story about  people and differences. A story about the prejudice of being different,  being ostracized, being demonized, being hated and feared. A story of how  resistant people are to change, be it changes in scientific theories,  changes in what they look like. It much resembles the medical thrillers of  Robin Cook. Interestingly enough, there is even a reference to a character  reading one of his novels.The plot itself is straightforward enough. SHEVA,  an agent lying dormant in our very cells, in our very genes for millions of  years, has started to act of its own accord and begun to infect women and  men, causing strange pregnancies. Is it a virus? A mutagenic agent? A sign  of the end of humanity? Or the mechanism by which the next step in  evolution will take place? Several well drawn viewpoint characters, from a  discredited anthropologist, to a scientist critical to the discovery of the  agent are our windows into this near future world.<br />Perhaps focused on as  much as the science of SHEVA is how the scientists and ordinary people  react to its seemingly implacable onslaught. All too plausible to me, as a  graduate student of Biology, is the reluctance of academics and ordinary  people alike to see the truth for what it is for the mere reason that it  contradicts beliefs they hold dear. The blinders worn by many of the  characters are all too real. The reaction to the fact that SHEVA evidently  overturns formerly accepted ideas in Biology, Anthropology and Evolution is  dealt with in realistic manner. In many science fiction novels, such  paradigm breaking discoveries would be accepted meekly, without protest,  without debate. n Darwin's Radio, Bear's scientists are much more human and  much more self interested. The power grabbing by one character, using the  crisis of SHEVA as a means to political power, is another fine touch. The  chaotic and often irrational reaction of the general public to the crisis  is also gripping, scary and page-turning.<br />Darwin's Radio is indeed  science fiction, but it is science fiction which does not spend so much  time on the science that the rest of the novel suffers by comparison. As a  matter of fact, the book could be effectively marketed as a general fiction  novel. It's a science fiction novel for people who would not be caught dead  reading a science fiction novel, yet shows clearly Bear's strengths at  keeping the science plausible to satisfy even the most devout SF fan.<br />This book deserves its Hugo Award Nomination, although I do not feel it  was the best of the five nominated novels.ith in realistic manner. In many science fiction novels, such  paradigm breaking discoveries would be accepted meekly, without protest,  without debate. n Darwin's Radio, Bear's scientists are much more human and  much more self interested. The power grabbing by one character, using the  crisis of SHEVA as a means to political power, is another fine touch. The  chaotic and often irrational reaction of the general public to the crisis  is also gripping, scary and page-turning.<br />Darwin's Radio is indeed  science fiction, but it is science fiction which does not spend so much  time on the science that the rest of the novel suffers by comparison. As a  matter of fact, the book could be effectively marketed as a general fiction  novel. It's a science fiction novel for people who would not be caught dead  reading a science fiction novel, yet shows clearly Bear's strengths at  keeping the science plausible to satisfy even the most devout SF fan.  <br />This book deserves its Hugo Award Nomination, although I do not feel it  was the best of the five nominated novels.	2000-07-05
US	53090059	R1FQN9HWTJYY47	0898797071	467772690	World-Building (Science Fiction Writing Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Useful for both SF writers and a General Reference	I am not a SF writer and really do not have plans to become one, but since I have an interest in astronomy, I found myself, by turns, buying and looking over this book.<br />The detail in the book is very good.  While the  equations and mathematics will turn off some, they ARE necessary in order  to construct a &quot;believable&quot; science fiction world, and the  authors do take pains to make it as &quot;plug and play&quot; as  possible.<br />The best part of the book is the last, with the authors  imaginative and fanciful planetary settings for science fiction stories.  The &quot;clorox&quot; world has to be read to be believed.<br />The only  caveat to the book is the inevitable march of planetary knowledge slowly  rendering some details of our own solar system slightly incorrect.	2000-06-26
US	53090059	RSSN0Q4MKFYUM	0870540947	275460305	Wind from a Burning Woman	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Unexpected pleasure in early Bear Stories	...I figured that Amazon had made a slight goof, for how could a17 year old hardcopy version of the book still be in print when thepaperback is out of stock?  So I decided to order it anyway.<br />Imagine my surprise when I received notice when it shipped and it arrived.<br />This collects several early Bear Stories, including the title story (which serves as a prequel to the Eon stories), The White Horse Child (a rare fantasy entry), Hardfought (1983 Nebula winner), Petra (a Nebula Nominee), Scattershot and Mandala (part of his novel Heaven's River).<br />It's a strong &quot;first stories&quot; collection, and if you can grab it and are a fan of Greg Bear, then you should certainly do so.	2000-06-16
US	53090059	R17O218V9579CS	0764912518	103433949	Cryptorunes: Codes and Secret Writing	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Pickover's puzzling nature strikes again	Clifford Pickover truly seems to be a Renissance man.  His previous forays into conundrums and puzzles have ranged from time travel to hyperspace to infinity.<br />This time, its cryptography.  While some of the aspects of  these puzzles might be hard for some novices, and I could wish for room and  space to more easily work on the puzzles, the puzzles themselves are a joy  to play with.<br />If you like cryptographic analysis, enjoyed Neal  Stephenson's Cryptonomicon, or want to try a brain teaser of a different  sort, then you might want to delve into Cryptorunes.	2000-06-06
US	53090059	R42HZYFUKSNAH	0061056383	862581106	Foundation's Fears (Second Foundation Trilogy)	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Rehashed Material	I am very disappointed in Gregory Benford.  If he wasn't up to the task of writing a Foundation Novel, then he should have passed the opportunity to do so.<br />Instead, more than half of this novel is previously published  material.  The Joan and Voltaire material is lifted from a novella he wrote  for Robert Silverberg's Time Gate shared world, and the Chimpanzee  Immersion material is lifted from a short story he wrote in 1996 called  &quot;Immersion.&quot;<br />The rest of the novel is, in my opinion, mainly  poor characterization of Asimov's characters, acting in ways that would  cause the Good Doctor to spin in his grave.<br />I really like Benford's  work...but this is certainly the worst effort he has ever put to paper.  The fact that much of the book is lifted material (even if it is fairly  good material) is inexcusable.  The material does not even mesh well with  the rest of the book, much less the Foundation Universe.	2000-06-03
US	53090059	R1QEB5T16GK9GI	156504309X	145031254	The Rage Across the Heavens (A Sourcebook for Werewolf: The Apocalypse)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Garou join the events of the Year of the Reckoning	And as the Ravnos Methusalah awoke, hungry, a mysterious red orb appeared in the skies of the Umbra, a portent of something...but of what?<br />Rage Across the Heavens hooks the Garou into the storyline, with a mysterious  Red Star appearing in the skies of the Umbra. Is it the Orb of the Wyrm?  Are the prophecies coming true?<br />This sourcebook details those prophecies,  rules for Garou Astrology, details on the Incarna of the planets, and more.  It is especially useful on details of the Aetherial Realm's denizens and  powers.	2000-04-14
US	53090059	RVD4HJQS8TYCJ	0006498140	100655402	Traces	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	A Superior but still Mixed Bag of Stephen Baxter Stories	In collected stories, there is always the risk of getting nuggets of iron pyrite in with true treasures. Rarely does a collection have a complete slate of hits without a miss.  Even the best author can have a few lesser  lights mixed in with the best.<br />Stephen Baxter's collection Traces shows  this maxim quite well.  Unlike the thematic Vacumn Diagrams, its a pretty  diverse collection, including probably the best story of the lot, the  imaginative &quot;Moon Six&quot;.  The titular story, on the other hand, is  a forgettable tale at best.  In between range stories of various strengths  and weakness, ranging on sf treatments of subjects from Verne to  Gagarin.<br />American fans of Stephen Baxter like myself will appreciate  having the collection, but this is definitely not the place to start with  his work if you are new to his brand of idea bursting stories.	2000-03-27
US	53090059	R2JBBZIM6619EP	0812558774	231875946	Coils	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A moderately interesting collaborative novel	A moderately interesting collaborative novel  between Fred Saberhagen and the late, lamented Roger Zelazny.  It feels a little dated in its treatment of computers, but somewhat entertaining nevertheless.	2000-02-21
US	53090059	R2QK4F0RBLQE8K	0374522596	875149572	The Control of Nature	Books	5	40	45	N	Y	My first John McPhee...and definitely won't be the last	When I learned that John McPhee won a Pulitzer Prize for ANNALS OF THE FORMER WORLD, I blanched a bit at buying and reading that weighty tome.  I wasn't sure about tackling it, no matter how highly recommended.  Thus, I looked for a smaller volume of his to &quot;test the waters&quot; since I  have never read anything written by him before.<br />I chose, almost at  random, this volume, and fell in love with the man's work.  McPhee  definitely has a talent for writing, both in describing the often unusual  people he meets in the three locales depicted, and his intelligent and  witty turns of phrase.<br />This definitely won't be my last John McPhee book.	2000-01-10
US	53090059	R169SDCA9DCMP0	0486270963	649504463	Number Words and Number Symbols: A Cultural History of Numbers	Books	4	28	30	N	N	A bit stilted and dense, but fascinating nevertheless	Number Words and Number Symbols is a translation of a work originally in German, and it shows.  While the discussions of the origins of various cultures and languages' symbols and words for numbers is almost encylopedic  in its completion, it can be very stilted reading at times.<br />If you don't  mind sometimes long and verbose reading, then this is certainly one of the  best works on the subject out there.  I would quibble that Menninger gives  the East less coverage than the West, but his comparisons of number words  across Indo-European languages is simply fascinating. Also, too are his  theories about how the displacement of one language by another in a region  can often lead to weird anomalies in number counting.	1999-12-21
US	53090059	RXGYXPTYOFY2S	034542333X	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Greg Bear boldly ventures into Robin Cook territory	Greg Bear is a SF writer with an excellent range.  While his novels uniformly show a joy in describing unusual and exotic extensions of science as we know it, from the nanotechnology of Blood Music to the unusual  physics of Moving Mars, he has always kept the human element front and  center in his writings.  We care about the people who inhabit his  worlds.<br />Darwin's Radio is a story about people and differences.  A story  about the prejudice of being different, being ostracized, being demonized,  being hated and feared.  A story of how resistant people are to change, be  it changes in scientific theories, changes in what they look like.  It  much resembles the medical thrillers of Robin Cook.  Interestingly enough,  there is even a reference to a character reading one of his novels.The plot  itself is straightforward enough.  SHEVA,  an agent lying dormant in our  very cells, in our very genes for millions of years, has started to act of  its own accord and begun to infect women and men, causing strange  pregnancies.  Is it a virus? A mutagenic agent?  A sign of the end of  humanity? Or the mechanism by which the next step in evolution will take  place?  Several well drawn viewpoint characters, from a discredited  anthropologist, to a scientist critical to the discovery of the agent are  our windows into this near future world.<br />Perhaps focused on as much as  the science of SHEVA is how the scientists and ordinary people react to its  seemingly implacable onslaught.  All too plausible to me, as a graduate  student of Biology, is the reluctance of academics and ordinary people  alike to see the truth for what it is for the mere reason that it  contradicts beliefs they hold dear.  The blinders worn by many of the  characters are all too real.  The reaction to the fact that SHEVA evidently  overturns formerly accepted ideas in Biology, Anthropology and Evolution is  dealt with in  realistic manner.  In many science fiction novels, such  paradigm breaking discoveries would be accepted meekly, without protest,  without debate. n Darwin's Radio, Bear's scientists are much more human and  much more self interested.  The power grabbing by one character, using the  crisis of SHEVA as a means to political power, is another fine touch.  The  chaotic and often irrational reaction of the  general public to the crisis  is also gripping, scary and page-turning.<br />Darwin's Radio is indeed  science fiction, but it is science fiction which does not spend so much  time on the science that the rest of the novel suffers by comparison.  As a  matter of fact, the book could be effectively marketed as a general fiction  novel.  It's a science fiction novel for people who would not be caught  dead reading a science fiction novel, yet shows clearly Bear's strengths at  keeping the science plausible to satisfy even the most devout SF fan.coveries would be accepted meekly, without protest,  without debate. n Darwin's Radio, Bear's scientists are much more human and  much more self interested.  The power grabbing by one character, using the  crisis of SHEVA as a means to political power, is another fine touch.  The  chaotic and often irrational reaction of the  general public to the crisis  is also gripping, scary and page-turning.<br />Darwin's Radio is indeed  science fiction, but it is science fiction which does not spend so much  time on the science that the rest of the novel suffers by comparison.  As a  matter of fact, the book could be effectively marketed as a general fiction  novel.  It's a science fiction novel for people who would not be caught  dead reading a science fiction novel, yet shows clearly Bear's strengths at  keeping the science plausible to satisfy even the most devout SF fan.	1999-07-01
US	53090059	R2A29MZ5PMB8MJ	0312867875	860649477	Legends: Stories By The Masters of Modern Fantasy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Oh my.  A fantasy lovers Dream made paper	Two years ago, if someone told me that for less than $30, I could have  almost a dozen novellas from great and varied authors and set in their  worlds, I would have told them they were nuts, crazy and from another  universe.<br />Lo and behold. Silverberg managed the feat.  Are you a Wheel of  Time nut? There is a prequel novella for you.  Enjoy Tad Williams?  The  newest fantasy legend, George R.R. Martin? Yep, they are all here.  Even  stuff for Pern-lovers and Discworld fanatics.<br />The beauty of this work is  two fold. First, the quality is high throughout.  Nary a clunker in the  lot.  Second, if you haven't read all the authors' and their  series, this  is a good taste of a bunch of the best.  Never considered Stephen King  before?  Here is a Gunslinger novella.  If you are one of those afraid to  try the huge Wheel of Time, the novella by Jordan gives a nice feel for his  writing.<br />Buy it for a friend. Buy it for yourself.  Buy it for someone  who has never tried fantasy before. (I have done the first two...).	1998-10-06
US	53090059	R3TLI10RSK07EX	0670849707	149633096	Collected Fictions	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	An excellent first-ever compedium of all of Borges' work.	I discovered Jorge Luis Borges, not through some literature class, or from  other post-modern writers. Instead I discovered his work through science  fiction.<br />His weird worlds often have, inadvertently, a science fiction  flavor, and it is several of his stories that have appeared in science  fiction story anthologies that I first learned about this most unusual  writer.  I was disappointed to see just how scattershot his work was,  however, until the publication of this latest and complete translation.  They are all here--the stories that introduced me to his work...&quot;The  Library of Babel&quot; &quot;Tlon, Uqbar, Orbius Teritus&quot; and others.  And many stories I had never heard of...or ever seen more than a mention  of. It's a hefty volume, but if you like writers like Umberto Eco, or  simply want doses of something other than our mundane banal reality,  Borges' work, sadly and idiotically ignored for a Nobel prize, is worth a  try. And this volume, the complete and definitive collection of his  stories, is the one and only book you need purchase.	1998-09-25
US	53090059	R3QUS5NHCOQI8U	0345421949	526632959	Roads Not Taken: Tales of Alternate History	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A crop of Alternate History tales from Superb to adequate	What if the North won a pyrrhic victory against the South?  What if the 1950's saw a dawn of an America much much darker than the one we have in this universe.<br />That's the crux of this mostly stellar selection of stories by some of the most well known writers in the buisness.  Collections of this type rise or fall on the strength of the individual stories, and the quality in Roads not Taken is very high.  Even the clunkers,and they are few, aren't bad stories, merely ones I personally had little taste for.<br />Your mileage may vary with some of the stories, but if you have any interest in Alternate History, be it by Turtledove, De Camp, or some of the lesser known lights of Science Fiction, there is something in this collection to suit your fancy.  Recommended.	1998-08-06
US	53090059	R1PI76EZ25AQM9	0345297296	126819671	Well of the Unicorn	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	An oldie but a goodie!	Long before the days of Robert Jordan's mega-epic, or even before Lord of the Rings, Fletcher Pratt, better known for his collaborations with the likes of L. Sprague De Camp, wrote THE WELL OF THE UNICORN.<br />More in the tradition of Lord Dunsany than anything else, Well of the Unicorn paints an ever widening scope of a uniquely imagined fantasy world, stocked with locations and people you will never forget.<br />If you've read Robert Jordan and wished for a fantasy world that was a tad more realistic, or if you have never tried fantasy and want to begin with something literary rather than catering to a lowest common denominator, then Well of the Unicorn might be the book to hold your attention.	1998-07-18
US	53090059	R220P7PZ8PEFZ3	0380014300	248658617	Nine Princes In Amber	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The start of the best Fantasy series yet written.	The 10 books of the Amber series start with this one, Nine Princes in Amber.  Our narrator, our protagonist, Carl Corey &quot;Corwin&quot; remembers little of who he is, and what he wants to be...and thus as he grows to remember the true state of affairs in the infinite universes, so does the reader learn with him in an irresistable manner.  Intrigue, adventure, grand vistas, unforgettable characters, brilliantly depicted locales, and more await the reader. Enjoy and be wrapped up in its pure magic.  Though Tolkien came first, and Jordan promises to make his series ever longer, both must accede the crown of best Fantasy series to Roger Zelazny's Amber.	1998-06-01
US	53090059	RYHG7F2RIB3D7	0722534485	835388648	Hallowquest: The Arthurian Tarot Course: A Tarot Journey Through the Arthurian World	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	A different sort of Tarot and Tarot course	Those looking for a Tarot deck and course which explains the minutae and difference between a seven of wands reversed and a eight of swords are going to be disappointed in this set. Its completely different in scope, outlook and use.  More of a mediative deck than one for divination, the Hallowquest is not everyone's kettle of fish, but if you have an interest in meditating on the archetypes of the Arthurian world, then this book is your cup of tea indeed.	1998-05-28
US	53090059	R1SXWX46FIFWFN	0345360761	404144567	A World of Difference	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Turtledove's Alternate History of a &quot;Mars&quot; with life	While Harry Turtledove is far better known for his fantasy novels (eg. The Videssos novels) and his alternate histories (see the WorldWar books), included in his canon is this what-if with a subtler premise--what if Mars had, when it was formed, coalesced into a larger planet--called Minerva in this history, and supported life, including intelligent life.  Add in rival Soviet and American missions to the large fourth planet, not to mention the interesting biology of the aliens themselves, and you have A World of Difference.  Even though the Soviet-American &quot;cold-war&quot; relations may seem dated in this era of Yeltsin, the premise still holds up rather well. Even better are the aliens themselves...technologically inferior to their visitors, their attempts to manipulate their new friends into sharing their power and technology (most especially weapons) are all too reminiscent of the history of third world peoples on our own planet who tried the same to their European visitors.	1998-03-17
US	53090059	R14AMHR4FYAFC6	1853672815	85214900	For Want of a Nail: If Burgoyne Had Won at Saratoga	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Sobel's Classic History Textbook of a history that never was	In a history that never was, in a world almost next door, this book would be a history textbook, and a good one at that.  Until the Battle of Saratoga, it is indistinguishable from the typical history text of the period...and then the fun begins.  Sobel goes into detail in a history that has to be read to be believed.  If you enjoy reading history, and wondering what would happen if things went another way, and want to see the results of that change in minute detail, this book is for you.	1998-03-05
