US	53096078	R37CG47YVKAVKZ	1879737256	521456198	The Matthew 16 Controversy: Peter and the Rock	Books	1	30	55	N	N	Tendentious, partisan, deeply flawed	Wm Webster's method is to select only those quotes (usually fragments or sections, and many out of context) from the Fathers and other first-millennium Christians and Christian heretics and then to quote them as 'proof', in much the same way as the ignorant or malevolent quote Sacred Scripture to 'prove' the errancy of Scripture in particular and Christianity in general.  His root error is that he assumes Jesus spoke Greek, and so makes much of the 'petros - petra' distinction in Matthew's account.  Serious students of Scripture and history know that Jesus spoke Aramaic, which has only one word for rock - kepha.  So when Our Lord says to Simon: &quot;You are rock...build my Church&quot; he could only have said &quot;You are &lt;kepha&gt;, and on this &lt;kepha&gt; I will build my Church&quot;.  The gender problem in Greek nouns evaporates in Aramaic, and so does Webster's whole argument.  Actually, the author's 'arguments' are so old and have been refuted so ably and so many times over the centuries that most Protestant scholars today accept that Christ changed Simon's name to Rock (ie Peter) -- which is after all what Scripture calls him.  If Simon Bar-Jona was not called Rock by Christ, then indeed most of the New Testament gets it wrong when it calls him by that name.  And for believing Christians, the very notion that the Holy Spirit, as principal Author of Scripture, gets such a basic thing wrong, is quite untenable.  The real truth is that Scripture gets it right, and this is borne out (not proved, just demonstrated) by subsequent history, right up to the present successor of Peter, who so ably confirms his brethren in the truth.  And talking of apostolic succession: Webster seems dismally ignorant of Scripture and entirely misses the point of Acts 1:15-26, where Matthias is appointed as successor to Judas.  Why would the Apostles appoint a successor if their was no office that survives the holder?  Still, for those who are serious students, a detailed study of this book AND the sources Webster quotes will reveal how selective and out-of-context his quotes are.  Blatant error can often point the path back to truth.  Sadly, though, some won't bother to check Webster's sources, and so this deeply flawed work will harden prejudice and entrench division.f this book AND the sources Webster quotes will reveal how selective and out-of-context his quotes are.  Blatant error can often point the path back to truth.  Sadly, though, some won't bother to check Webster's sources, and so this deeply flawed work will harden prejudice and entrench division.	2003-11-06
US	53096078	R34YWYYMCJIKU1	019816727X	509132627	The Aesthetics of Music	Books	4	44	49	N	N	Formidable, engrossing	That some readers (and reviewers) will object to Scruton's cultural critique is to be expected; after all, he doesn't shrink from the cultural, political, idealogical and moral implications of his carefully-argued aesthetic. Though you don't have to agree, you'll find his arguments engrossing and his knowledge of music formidable. The journey through his encyclopedic knowledge alone is worth the read. The basic idea that music powerfully both reflects and influences the soul and thus society is certainly not new (it's part of ancient wisdom). Scruton's contribution is to look at the processes, reasons and effects in the light of modern philosophy. Mercifully, he writes in an accessible prose. Though not essential to following his argument, a basic knowledge of music theory and ability to parse musical notation will add considerably to the enjoyment of this important book.	2001-09-03
US	53096078	R1JT0QE62CUQNK	0393701921	525844848	Back to Reality: A Critique of Postmodern Theory in Psychotherapy	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Refreshingly lucid look at philosophy of &amp; in psychotherapy	Barbara Held says in the Preface that 'This is not a book about how to do psychotherapy.  It is a book about how to think about psychotherapy -- more precisely, how to think as clearly as possible about the theory and practice of psychotherapy.'  Written while a visting scholar at Tufts in the early 90s, this book examines and critiques one of the fundamental philosophical assumptions of the PoMo movement -- the denial of external reality and the consequent disappearance of the individual (who, after all, is ostensibly the subject in therapy).  I found her work significant because she clearly shows how philosophical theory inescapably informs psycho-praxis. As the title suggests, Held makes a good case for what she calls a &quot;modestly realist&quot; epistemology, and incisively deploys Edward Pols (himself a first-rank thinker in Philosophy of Mind) to highlight the serious theoretical problems in a constructivist-only position.  If you're even vaguely interested in the philosophical issues behind psychotherapy, or like the rest of us concerned about the divergent and disjunct anthropologies behind various 'schools' of psychology, then this book is for you.  Particularly exciting is her ably-argued case for a moderate-realist epistemology.  I view this work is a significant step towards the recovery of  philosophy, which for too long has collapsed ontology into epistemology and then lapsed, as the PoMos do, into solipsism.	2001-03-02
US	53096078	R14G1S68A1G1K8	0898707846	498474136	The Spirit of the Liturgy	Books	5	140	146	N	N	Important step towards the restoration of reverence	Inspired by Romano Guardini's classic of the same name, the importance of this book cannot be overstated -- not just because the author is one of the church's foremost theologians and Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, but mainly because its rich content provides profound insight into the interplay between the transcendant and the immanent in the liturgy.  This man's brilliant mind, his deep grasp of humanity, history and scripture, and his humility and respect for all sides in the liturgical reform movement shine through in John Saward's crisp translation from the German original.  Divided into four parts (The Essence of the Liturgy, Time and Space in the Liturgy, Art and Liturgy, Liturgical Form), the cardinal's reflections will benefit liturgists and worshippers alike.  This book should be read by every catholic adult, but especially by bishops, priests, and deacons (and those in formation).  After 30 years of drift into banality, the church still awaits the implementation of Vatican II's vision of the liturgy. This book provides impetus in that direction.	2000-10-26
US	53096078	R2YBJNRCWKNRAX	0028636392	816680228	Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Catholicism	Books	2	22	34	N	N	I was hoping for more ...	I was hoping for a good outline of the Catholic Faith ... but what I got was a good view of Bob O'Gorman's faith, which isn't always Catholic.  Other reviewers have pointed out some of the errors -- and there are quite a lot -- so, contrary to my hopes, this boook isn't really an adequate guide for the curious or the prospective convert.  Perhaps the &quot;Idiots&quot; in the title refers to the authors, not the readers ...	2000-10-23
US	53096078	R2L85EY6DNPPBR	089870135X	485879376	Beyond Modernity: Reflections of a Post-Modern Catholic	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Get Ruttled!	What a marvellous mind this man has!  And an even better heart.  Written in a rather homiletic style (which makes sense, when you have an eternal perspective), Rutler's reflection on modernity and its pomo successor outlines the only real answer to today's intellectual and moral chaos.	2000-10-23
US	53096078	R1YH42PKSMQKD9	1893554090	643613111	The Long March: How the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s Changed America	Books	4	17	19	N	N	So that's why my TV is a sewer	As an African watching America auto-abort I read Kimball's catalogue of cultural decay with a growing sense horror.  The wonder's not that the cretins he criticises did and said what they did, but that the rest of America (and most of the planet) fell for it.  That's the real story that still needs to be told.  A wonderful corrective for hexadekaphiliacs.  Though not a fatalist, I've come to believe that open tyranny in America is well-nigh inevitable ... what else happens when every social institution sells out to nihilism?!	2000-10-23
US	53096078	R1E2TQGCO569UG	0916938174	953920897	The Babylon Connection?	Books	3	40	60	N	N	Nimrod here, Nimrod there, Nimrod everywhere!	It's not often an author has the courage to publish a catalogue of how he was hoodwinked by pseudo-scholarship and bunkum history, yet Ralph Woodrow has done just this in &quot;Bablyon Connection?&quot;  That he has done so in the hot-house of anti-catholic polemic is even more remarkable.  This short reflection pours cold water on many outrageous and blasphemous &quot;religion of Babylon&quot; claims against the church founded by Christ.<br />Not that Woodrow has swum the Tiber, mind you -- he still doesn't understand Catholic devotions to the mother of Jesus (which are utterly Christo-centric) and is critical of prayers like the rosary (p116). He claims, for example, that the Bible doesn't say Mary if &quot;full of grace&quot; (as in the Ave) but that this refers to Jesus (Jn 1:14).  Perhaps his English translation of Lk 1:28 is less faithful to the Greek, which read 'chaire, kecharitomenai, ho Kurios meta sou' -- to which the catholic version of the angelic salutation is faithful.<br />All said, this is a worthwhile booklet to get, if only to see just how astonishingly bizarre (and groundless) the inventions of people like Hislop, Woodrow (in his earlier work), Freke and numerous others are.  Bravo!	2000-10-22
US	53096078	R1LP9NQHHXAWNV	0060629150	211591987	The Coming of the Cosmic Christ: The Healing of Mother Earth and the Birth of a Global Renaissance	Books	1	28	90	N	N	All the facts!	Yes, folks, it's All Happening Now!  The dawn of the New Age of Enlightenment.  What we've all been waiting for (pant).  The Cosmic Consciousness, the Cosmic Christ incarnating like never before.  What a time to be alive!  Matthew Fox delivers his revelation on the Real Truth about the Cosmos and its Christ, neatly woven in eco-speak and Gaia-gabble.  I tried.  Truly, I tried to understand what he's on about.  I found a lot of Consciousness, Awareness, Forces, Being, Quanta, Fields, Trends, and Direction.  Lots of spirituality but no religion.  Lots of gender but no sex.  Lots of insight and belief, but no dogma, no doctrine, no drama ... a wondrous postmodern utopia, and so  disconnected from anything real and so utterly irrelevant to our human condition.  If you're looking for a book (and an author) to inspire you to change your life, look elsewhere.  Though the words are golden, the soup is thin.  This is a book for utopians, so you can read it with impunity -- it won't change your life.  And fortunately for the rest of us, Fox and his Creation Spiritualists don't have what it takes to really change anything.  Sadly, not even themselves.	2000-09-28
US	53096078	R3E2SAF2IFGHLA	9653590154	38324771	Complete Jewish Bible : An English Version of the Tanakh (Old Testament) and B'Rit Hadashah (New Testament)	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Bible students should get this translation	During a recent close study of Paul's epistles in several English  translations (and subsequently the Greek) it became clear that Stern's  rendering is in many respects more lucid than several popular  committee-produced efforts. This brings a consistency and harmony to his  work that many modern translations lack. He is refreshingly forthright (and  faithful) in touchy translations of controverted texts, especially in  sexual morality where others obfuscate with euphemisms. He uses the  transliterated Hebrew names of bible characters, and the profound and  essential &quot;Israelite-ness&quot; of Christianity seeps through without  compromising the catholicity of The Way. His translation also picks out  nuances that many will find enriching. Small example: &quot;faith&quot; is  often rendered as &quot;trust in&quot;, which is both more concrete and  more consistent with the Jewish understanding. A minor quibble: I don't  care much for his &quot;Messianic Community&quot; rendering of 'ekklesia';  though not wrong, it fails to capture the organic unity between the Head  and His Body, (the ekklesia is a community, but it is also much more --  Yeshua's Mystical Body). Another inhibitor for me: this translation  excludes several Tanakh (OT) books that since the Foundation in 33 AD were  regarded as canonical, and whose authenticity is attested by the infallible  authority of Yeshua the Mashiach in the very messianic community he founded  on Shimon Kefa. (After all, most scholars agree the NT writers used and  quoted from the Septuagint, which contains the books arbitrarily excluded  by rabbis nearly two generations after Jesus). However, don't let these  shortcomings stop you from acquiring and enjoying this important  translation. I find myself increasingly referring to Stern's CJB when I  encounter convoluted passages in other translations -- more often than not  he renders the sense in very accessible contemporary English that squares  well with the Hebrew or Greek textus receptus. Also, the companion Jewish  New Testament Commentary is highly recommended.xtus receptus. Also, the companion Jewish  New Testament Commentary is highly recommended.	2000-09-07
US	53096078	R3C9MYHDRNWGT2	060960581X	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	1	34	75	N	N	Tedious rehash of old chestnuts	Here I was hoping to find a well-argued and thoroughly researched tracing  of the paleo-pagan strands in Christianity. After all, one would expect  true religion to include truths apprehended since the earliest times (for  unlike ours, ancient pagan cultures were deeply religious -- just take a  look at Mircea Eliades' scholarly works). Instead I found the repetition of  tired old ex-parte accusations and diatribes against received Christianity,  with no hint that the authors grasp their real import of their arguments.  Indeed, it's not so much the authors' anti-Jesus and anti-Catholic polemic  that I find objectionable. What disappoints is their ignorance of humanity  and history, and the immense body of scholarship over centuries on  precisely this topic. They clearly have an agenda (that's fine - who  hasn't?), but in this book they unwittingly fall on their own sword.  Ironically, for the thinking person, the authors' polemic actually works to  support rather than undermine the veracity of traditional, especially  Catholic, beliefs and ritual. How so? Because, despite a rather sophomoric  sprinkling of historical 'evidence' (sadly, much of it out of context, or  just plain wrong), they fail to understand the nature and history of  religion. &lt;Lecture on&gt; From the earliest times humankind has been  religious because we apprehend, however dimly, the cosmic truths behind the  mundane. 'Pagan' is not a synonym for 'unreligious', or even 'untrue' --  ancient pagan cultures were profoundly religious and rightly saw every  aspect of life as charged with the divine. However obscured and deformed,  these intuitions of transcendancy all contain elements of truth about God  and the cosmos. Now any religion which claims to banish all 'pagan  accretions' must surely ignore many deep truths that have been grasped  since the dawn of time. And insofar as the new religion disavows ancient  and universal truths (in both belief and ritual) such a religion breaks not  only with what is true in history, but also with what is true in eternity.  It is, in the literal sense, idiotic, and cannot speak to the depths  within. I see the incorporation of certain pagan elements in Christianity  as evidence for, rather than evidence against. It's what you'd expect if a  religion had any truth in it and speaks to what is authentic in man. Though  they were not enlightened by revelation, our pagan ancestors knew better  than their modern counterparts that divinity created and sustains the  cosmos and that our lives should be charged with and transformed by this  reality. In important respects they understood our relation ('religio')  with God and creation better than us. That's why commentators wiser than  Timothy Freke have observed that for modern Westerners to become good  Christians requires that they first become good pagans, for our culture has  discarded eternal truths and disciplines in sound thinking that were well  known to ancient pagans. Did not pagan Plato and Aristotle teach that the  service of God both publically and privately was the highest duty and most  humanising act? An ancient pagan would regard our naked public square and  privatised (ie marginalised) religion as a deep threat to society's future  well-being. Not without struggle did the early Christians come to  understand the universality (they called it catholicity) of The Way, and  this freed them to distinguish between the substance and the form, the  eternal and the changeable. This is the genius of Christianity -- it can  take what is true in paganism and anywhere else and transform it,  incorporate it, divinise it, just as the eternal God incorporates  humankind, transforms it, divinises it. &lt;Lecture off&gt;h what is true in history, but also with what is true in eternity.  It is, in the literal sense, idiotic, and cannot speak to the depths  within. I see the incorporation of certain pagan elements in Christianity  as evidence for, rather than evidence against. It's what you'd expect if a  religion had any truth in it and speaks to what is authentic in man. Though  they were not enlightened by revelation, our pagan ancestors knew better  than their modern counterparts that divinity created and sustains the  cosmos and that our lives should be charged with and transformed by this  reality. In important respects they understood our relation ('religio')  with God and creation better than us. That's why commentators wiser than  Timothy Freke have observed that for modern Westerners to become good  Christians requires that they first become good pagans, for our culture has  discarded eternal truths and disciplines in sound thinking that were well  known to ancient pagans. Did not pagan Plato and Aristotle teach that the  service of God both publically and privately was the highest duty and most  humanising act? An ancient pagan would regard our naked public square and  privatised (ie marginalised) religion as a deep threat to society's future  well-being. Not without struggle did the early Christians come to  understand the universality (they called it catholicity) of The Way, and  this freed them to distinguish between the substance and the form, the  eternal and the changeable. This is the genius of Christianity -- it can  take what is true in paganism and anywhere else and transform it,  incorporate it, divinise it, just as the eternal God incorporates  humankind, transforms it, divinises it. &lt;Lecture off&gt;	2000-09-07
US	53096078	R314539PXUXT41	0060629657	974225325	Confessions: The Making of a Post-Denominational Priest	Books	1	15	48	N	N	Clap-trap	If ever a 'guru' was utterly taken in by his own self-righteousness then  Matthew Fox is the man.  A strange gobbledygook mixture of gaia gnosticism  and pseudo-platonism couched in terms hijacked from christian theology, Fox  hardly misses a page to vent against the Vatican (which excommunicated him  after he was  expelled by the Dominican order) whilst prattling on about  his stunning insights into the Mystery Of It All.  More humility and less  vitriol would have kept this book from being so tedious -- and probably  kept Fox faithful to the Truth.	2000-09-01
US	53096078	RP728TT6GGGXL	086315297X	378750969	When Was Anno Domini : Dating the Millennium	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good info on ancient calendars and birth date of Jesus	Throws light on the complexities and confusions arising from the different  calendars in use in the ancient world. Ormond gives a good overview of the  different but contemporaneous secular and religious calendars used in the  ancient Near East and shows convincingly that the traditional birthdate is  indeed more accurate than the supposed 4-6BC held by many moderns. The  author shows how misunderstandings of the different ancient calendars by  19-20th Century scholars led to the now widely held misconceptions. This is  a fascinating attempt at harmonising the apparently contradictory dates of  Herod the Great, the various Caesars, Quirinius, Pontius Pilate, the  infancy narratives by Matthew and Luke, other historical figures, and  Christian tradition. An interesting example: the 'enrolment' (census)  referred to in the gospel accounts was almost certainly a local affair  organised by Quirinius, governor of Syria, to wind up Herod's estate -- not  a region-wide census. This resolves the old 'contradictory history' problem  in Luke's gospel, for there was no general census under Augustus and a  census under Quirinius could not have taken place in Herod's time because  Quirinius was never governor during Herod's lifetime.  You can safely  ignore Ormond's anthroposophical leanings and his repetition of Steiner's  heretical notions that the infancy narratives refer to different people who  somehow merged their spirits to become the One Messiah. An easy read at 113  pages, with notes, references, and further reading suggestions. A useful  little book to have.	2000-08-31
US	53096078	R1OANV6QZ5B4TP	060960581X	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	1	13	44	N	N	What a disappointment	Here I was hoping to find a well-argued and thoroughly researched tracing of the paleo-pagan strands in Christianity. After all, one would expect  true religion to include truths apprehended since the earliest times (for  unlike ours, ancient pagan cultures were deeply religious -- just take a  look at Mircea Eliades' scholarly works). Instead I found the repetition of  tired old ex-parte accusations and diatribes against received Christianity,  with no hint that the authors grasp their real import of their arguments.  Indeed, it's not so much the authors' anti-Jesus and anti-Catholic polemic  that I find objectionable. What disappoints is their ignorance of humanity  and history, and the immense body of scholarship over centuries on  precisely this topic. They clearly have an agenda (that's fine - who  hasn't?), but in this book they unwittingly fall on their own sword.  Ironically, for the thinking person, the authors' polemic actually works to  support rather than undermine the veracity of traditional, especially  Catholic, beliefs and ritual. How so? Because, despite a rather sophomoric  sprinkling of historical 'evidence' (sadly, much of it out of context, or  just plain wrong), they fail to understand the nature and history of  religion. &lt;Lecture on&gt; From the earliest times humankind has been  religious because we apprehend, however dimly, the cosmic truths behind the  mundane. 'Pagan' is not a synonym for 'unreligious', or even 'untrue' --  ancient pagan cultures were profoundly religious and rightly saw every  aspect of life as charged with the divine. However obscured and deformed,  these intuitions of transcendancy all contain elements of truth about God  and the cosmos. Now any religion which claims to banish all 'pagan  accretions' must surely ignore many deep truths that have been grasped  since the dawn of time. And insofar as the new religion disavows ancient  and universal truths (in both belief and ritual) such a religion breaks not  only withwhat is true in history, but also with what is true in eternity.  It is, in the literal sense, idiotic, and cannot speak to the depths  within. I see the incorporation of certain pagan elements in Christianity  as evidence for, rather than evidence against. It's what you'd expect if a  religion had any truth in it and speaks to what is authentic in man. Though  they were not enlightened by revelation, our pagan ancestors knew better  than their modern counterparts that divinity created and sustains the  cosmos and that our lives should be charged with and transformed by this  reality. In important respects they understood our relation ('religio')  with God and creation better than us. That's why commentators wiser than  Timothy Freke have observed that for modern Westerners to become good  Christians requires that they first become good pagans, for our culture has  discarded eternal truths and disciplines in sound thinking that were well  known to ancient pagans. Did not pagan Plato and Aristotle teach that the  service of God both publically and privately was the highest duty and most  humanising act? An ancient pagan would regard our naked public square and  privatised (ie marginalised) religion as a deep threat to society's future  well-being. Not without struggle did the early Christians come to  understand the universality (they called it catholicity) of The Way, and  this freed them to distinguish between the substance and the form, the  eternal and the changeable. This is the genius of Christianity -- it can  take what is true in paganism and anywhere else and transform it,  incorporate it, divinise it, just as the eternal God incorporates  humankind, transforms it, divinises it. &lt;Lecture off&gt;	2000-08-31
US	53096078	R1QDUXBB50VQ5X	9653590154	38324771	Complete Jewish Bible : An English Version of the Tanakh (Old Testament) and B'Rit Hadashah (New Testament)	Books	4	118	141	N	N	Bible students should get this translation	During a recent close study of Paul's epistles in several English translations (and subsequently the Greek) it became clear that Stern's  rendering is in many respects more lucid than several popular  committee-produced efforts. This brings a consistency and harmony to his  work that many modern translations lack. He is refreshingly forthright (and  faithful) in touchy translations of controverted texts, especially in  sexual morality where others obfuscate with euphemisms. He uses the  transliterated Hebrew names of bible characters, and the profound and  essential &quot;Israelite-ness&quot; of Christianity seeps through without  compromising the catholicity of The Way. His translation also picks out  nuances that many will find enriching. Small example: &quot;faith&quot; is  often rendered as &quot;trust in&quot;, which is both more concrete and  more consistent with the Jewish understanding. A minor quibble: I don't  care much for his &quot;Messianic Community&quot; rendering of 'ekklesia';  though not wrong, it fails to capture the organic unity between the Head  and His Body, (the ekklesia is a community, but it is also much more --  Yeshua's Mystical Body). Another inhibitor for me: this translation  excludes several Tanakh (OT) books that since the Foundation in 33 AD were  regarded as canonical, and whose authenticity is attested by the infallible  authority of Yeshua the Mashiach in the very messianic community he founded  on Shimon Kefa. (After all, most scholars agree the NT writers used and  quoted from the Septuagint, which contains the books arbitrarily excluded  by rabbis nearly two generations after Jesus). However, don't let these  shortcomings stop you from acquiring and enjoying this important  translation. I find myself increasingly referring to Stern's CJB when I  encounter convoluted passages in other translations -- more often than not  he renders the sense in very accessible contemporary English that squares  well with the Hebrew or Greek textus receptus. Also, the companion Jewish  New Testament Commentary is highly recommended.	2000-08-31
US	53096078	R1CENVSO3JXX4L	1570580359	314502925	The End : a Study of the Book of Revelation	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Scott Hahn unveils Revelation	Few books have generated as much execrable exegesis as the last book of  the New Testament, and recent decades have seen an explosion in  millennialist eisegesis, especially by sects established over the past  century or so.  It was therefore with some, er, tribulation, that I  approached this study.  I was not disappointed -- this is indeed a  compelling and convincing review of St John's Apocalypse.  What a thrill at  last to encounter an academic who applies his learning to Revelation in a  way that is also consistent with the received (patristic) and magisterial  interpretation(s).  Hahn shows how St John's Vision is essentially his (and  our) participation in the Divine and Heavenly Liturgy, which incorporates  the entire soteriological drama from creation through redemption to  parousia.  He ably draws the OT connections to especially Ezekiel, Isaiah  and Daniel, and shows how this book only makes sense in the Church, because  it is written by and for the Church.  Also addressed and clarified are  issues that have vexed many, eg did Jesus believe the End would come in the  lifetime of &quot;this generation&quot;?  Those Christians whose church was  founded in 33 AD (ie those in communion with the Apostles) will recognise  many features in Revelation: scrolls being unsealed and read, letters to  churches, the Gloria, bells, incense and thuribles, candles and  candlesticks, the Sanctus, priestly garb, the Sacrifice of the Lamb at the  Wedding Supper, the Woman Clothed with the Sun, saints and angels  everywhere, and the Great Amen.  What else is this but the Eucharisteisos  in plenum, the New Covenant in the Lamb's Blood, which supersedes the old  creation and the old convenants.  Hahn's remedial hermeneutic (which,  thankfully, is not an innovation, only a particularly articulate  exposition) plugs in to the authentic Christian tradition.  If you want to  learn what Revelation really says, get this tape series.  Don't pass this  page without clicking &quot;Add to my Shopping Basket&quot; -- the subject  is too important!to my Shopping Basket&quot; -- the subject  is too important!	2000-08-14
US	53096078	RM3XMG9PPAU5B	1570583307	501711551	Why the Hell?	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Articulate, orthodox presentation of reality of sin and Hell	The contents description (above) adequately summarises the ground covered in this excellent tape series.  Prof Hahn does not shy away from frankly,  deeply and articulately wrestling with the mystery of evil and the reality  of eternal Hell, as taught by Christ and His Church.  His presentation  accords with the historical (ie biblical and received) doctrine of sin and  evil.  What is the real root -- and consequence -- of sin?  Hahn's  examination of Satan's rebellion and seduction of Adam and his progeny is  especially good.  He asks the deepest question: why, oh why did Lucifer,  the noblest and most enlightened of all creatures, rebel against the Lord  of Creation?  How did the rot in creation start?  His meditation draws on  biblical, patristic and scholastic sources as he grapples with the mystery  of &quot;non serviam&quot;.  One can understand the absolute necessity that  creatures serve the Creator, but just why should the higher serve the  lower, as Prof Hahn rightly observes the Fathers and Doctors asking?  Lucifer, gazing into the future history of creation and seeing the  incarnation, could not bear the humiliation of serving a Man, a creature  vastly cruder than his own exalted angelic self.  But just why should the  &quot;higher&quot; serve the &quot;lower&quot; order of creation?  Here  Prof Hahn could have spent more time.  The answer, I believe, must lie in  the very mystery of God's &quot;ontological service&quot; to the whole of  creation -- His own creative act and ongoing sustenance is the most  profound service of the &quot;lower&quot; (in this case, all of creation).  Service of the &quot;lower&quot; is writ into  the very architecture of  creation because it springs from heart of the Triune Creator.  Therefore,  if we are to participate in the Trinity's internal life, as we are called  to, we too must in some way image this service of the &quot;lower&quot;,  the poor, the anawim.  This is what suffering in the strictest etymological  sense really is -- to carry, to bear the very burden of creation.  That is  why, for the Christian, sufferng is a service and an honour, because it  mystically unites the soul to Christ, the suffering servant, and it thereby  becomes a profound participation in the loving fecundity of the Creator.  It is as if God were saying: &quot;If I, the eternal and omnipotent  Creator, Lord of All, to whom everything is owed, can serve you my  creatures by creating and sustaining you (not even to speak of my  redemptive sacrifice), then how much more should you also serve, especially  what you see as 'lower'?  If you would be with me forever, then you must do  as I do, for that is what Love does&quot;.  The central mystery of creation  is that the Highest &quot;serves&quot; everything else by calling it into  being and sustaining it moment by moment, and this pattern should be imaged  throughout creation.  And it should be so even in an unfallen universe.  By  refusing to serve (ie protect/sustain/nourish/nurture/love/etc), as Lucifer  and Adam anciently did, we in reality reject the Service that sustains our  own being.  We remove ourselves from the Creator's grasp restrain his  embracing arms with nails.  We overthrow the Divine Service and thereby  wreck our relationship with God and all creation.  The defiant self  recklessly claims to be master of its own life and servant of none and  thereby tumbles headlong into an ontological absurdity and a spiritual  abyss ...<br />What a pleasure to hear the ancient truths, the eternal truths  that set us free, so ably proclaimed.  Get this tape series, and the others  by Scott Hahn.  Learn again what our culture has unlearned.  Come home.really is -- to carry, to bear the very burden of creation.  That is  why, for the Christian, sufferng is a service and an honour, because it  mystically unites the soul to Christ, the suffering servant, and it thereby  becomes a profound participation in the loving fecundity of the Creator.   It is as if God were saying: &quot;If I, the eternal and omnipotent  Creator, Lord of All, to whom everything is owed, can serve you my  creatures by creating and sustaining you (not even to speak of my  redemptive sacrifice), then how much more should you also serve, especially  what you see as 'lower'?  If you would be with me forever, then you must do  as I do, for that is what Love does&quot;.  The central mystery of creation  is that the Highest &quot;serves&quot; everything else by calling it into  being and sustaining it moment by moment, and this pattern should be imaged  throughout creation.  And it should be so even in an unfallen universe.  By  refusing to serve (ie protect/sustain/nourish/nurture/love/etc), as Lucifer  and Adam anciently did, we in reality reject the Service that sustains our  own being.  We remove ourselves from the Creator's grasp restrain his  embracing arms with nails.  We overthrow the Divine Service and thereby  wreck our relationship with God and all creation.  The defiant self  recklessly claims to be master of its own life and servant of none and  thereby tumbles headlong into an ontological absurdity and a spiritual  abyss ...<br />What a pleasure to hear the ancient truths, the eternal truths  that set us free, so ably proclaimed.  Get this tape series, and the others  by Scott Hahn.  Learn again what our culture has unlearned.  Come home.	2000-08-10
US	53096078	R3EC4R5VRD0J69	157058043X	949835241	The Gospel of John	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Water, at last.	If you're parched in the wilderness of modern biblical commentary, this audio series will bring delight, joy, life.  Why does it take a convert to reconnect Catholics with their authentic scriptural tradition!  If you're  in the least bit interested in the truth that sets us free (or a skeptic  who can't work out why so many christians over so many centuries have been  willing to die for their faith), then you MUST get this tape series -- and  others by Scott Hahn.  His books are OK, his videotapes good, but his audio  tapes are awesome, especially the closer studies of  books of the bible.  I've listened to everything he's done -- and this one several times -- and  every time I learn more, and my joy in the catholic faith soares.  It's not  so much Scott Hahn as the Spirit calling to depths beyond depth.  If you  want to do one good thing today, buy this tape series (and his series on  the Apocalypse), and hear scripture come alive.  Then give this series to  others.  Cannot be too highly recommended.  Scott Hahn's bible study tapes  have already become classics, and history will show them as an important  advance in the coming Catholic Restoration.	2000-05-31
US	53096078	RID68I79KKFY	0830822038	123309549	How the News Makes Us Dumb: The Death of Wisdom in an Information Society	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Of course journalists won't like this book	Our news media are broken, and they can't be fixed, says Sommerville.  The news, especially, trivilaises everything of import, because it decontextualises.  Ever since news companies have had to make a profit like  any other corporation, they have inevitably been driven to make today's  (very jaundiced) view of reality seem all-important.  How do they select  what to report, and how to frame it?  The predigested snippets are packaged  in sensatonalism, with all the authority of the (pseudo-) experts, to make  sure you come back tomorrow for more.  News has become MacNews.  It would  be marvellous if every student could develop the critical sense that  Sommerville outlines in this rather chattily-written book. An easy read,  with a devastating critique of the news media.  Read it, today!	2000-04-09
US	53096078	R1Y43THTPXPJ68	0801058066	1352604	Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air	Books	3	72	84	N	N	A good introduction for non-academics	When you keep in mind the purpose of this book -- a practical guide to arm Moral Objectivists against three types of Moral Relativism (cultural/descriptive, socially prescriptive, and individual/ethical  relativism) -- it does a pretty good job.  Not everyone does Philosophy,  yet who doesn't encounter relativist arguments in almost every facet of  life.  Dealing mainly with Moral Relativism (only touching on  Epistemological and Ontological Relativism), Beckwith and Koukl's book  helps to make sense of what's really at issue, using concrete examples and  crisp refutations.  Many readers will find utility in Chapter 7,  &quot;Relativism's Seven Fatal Flaws&quot; (a covenantal coincidence in the  sevens?) and Chapter 14, &quot;Tactics to Refute Relativism&quot;.  Some of  their arguments could have been fleshed out a little more.  Also, a chapter  on the Rise of Relativism outlining the influence of key figures past and  present would have been useful to many.  All in all, an easy-to-read and  satisfying work that many non-relativists will find very useful in upper  high school and junior college, as well as at dinner table debates.  Of  course, convinced relativists won't read this book, but it will help to  clarify things for those who haven't thought much about these things.  Another boost for those out to Save Civilsation.	2000-03-06
US	53096078	RANXWW8HBMPGJ	0898707536	14641624	Many Religions, One Covenant: Israel, the Church, and the World	Books	4	108	131	N	N	Simple and profound	Just when you think all's been said on a topic, Joseph Ratzinger throws yet more light from a different yet utterly orthodox angle.  I bought this book thinking Scott Hahn was co-author, but he writes only the foreword.  Ratzinger isn't afraid to raise difficult questions and tackle them  head-on.  O, the lucidity of the catholic mind.	1999-12-12
US	53096078	R2WY2KU1PF8HGP	0898707315	365999876	A Refutation of Moral Relativism: Interviews with an Absolutist	Books	4	64	75	N	N	You'll love 'Isa and Libby.  Their arguments are spot-on.	Professor `Isa Ben Adam (nice name in translation), a Palestinian Arab scholar and Absolutist, is interviewed (and debated) by Moral Relativist Libby Rawls, a black journalist and former wife, psychological social  worker, surfing instructor, actress, alcoholic, and PI.  What a marvellous  debate ensues as Libby throws every relativist argument at the learned  prof, only to have them roundly and soundly demolished!  This easy  non-academic read is a useful guide for those engaged in dinner-table  debates on this most crucial of issues.  Obviously born from years of  experience as an embattled Absolutist in American adademia, this Kreeft  work is a delight to read as it sets out the arguments for and agin.  As  everyone who's ever debated this subject knows, it's very hard to avoid ad  hominems and other flesh-cutting retreats from reason, and they're here  just as in real life.  Another step towards the Restoration of Metaphysics.  This is the book you'll want your Relativist friends to read (but which  they'll probably ignore because refutation has too many implications for  their personal lives).  Get it.	1999-12-03
US	53096078	R1OBMGQFIELT7	0684844451	824181499	The KILLING OF HISTORY	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Keen insight &amp; critique of philosophy of science	I really enjoyed Windschuttle's critique of the current orthodoxy in the social sciences and humanities.  The last three chapters in particular are  outstanding summaries of the philosophical issues behind the titanic  struggle being waged in these disciplines. He outlines  importance of  Fukuyama in turning the Marxist method on its head using its own tools  (quoting Perry Anderson), and incisively deploys David Stove to show how  the Popper-Kuhn-Lakatos-Feyerabend nexus is built on shoddy thinking.  Recommended for those interested in the Culture Wars, especially those  dismayed by so many aspects of the Enlightenment project.	1999-10-26
US	53096078	R70ARQYJNISBX	0931888212	768710642	The Founding of Christendom: A History of Christendom (vol. 1)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Marvellous	What a delight to read a history from a Christocentric viewpoint!  These volumes must be read with two bookmarks -- one for the main text and one  for the end-of-chapter footnotes.  Highly recommended!  It's a dream of  mine to see a twenty-hour filmed version of this series.	1999-10-23
US	53096078	R10W5MY54NI4YG	0866834915	499881526	Theology and the Church: A Response to Cardinal Ratzinger and a Warning to the Whole Church	Books	1	9	26	N	N	Shallow and ignorant	A silly book.  Shows great ignorance of Christian teaching, scripture, and philosophy.  A modernist through and through.	1999-10-23
US	53096078	RFFXU0Q6QL05O	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	1	84	125	N	N	A nasty, vituperative and unscholarly attack on a good man	The claims are devastating -- Pacelli's anti-Semitism and even stronger anti-Bolshevism blinded him to the evil of the Third Reich to the point where he even lent tacit support.  Outrageous!  Sadly, Cornwell's screed  belies a very transparent agenda: though claiming to be a Catholic, he  clearly rejects the church's ecclesiology especially in respect of the  papal office, and this is his real target.  As has been pointed out by  better scholars (though not widely published), his claims are not warranted  by the facts; he ignores the much stronger and greater volume of very  positive evidence, and really seeks to rewrite history.  The Church's  actions in those dark times, and Pacelli's in particular, have been so  thoroughly researched and the negative claims so ably refuted by scholars  (also Jewish scholars) of impeccable standing, that Cornwell does Pacelli a  great wrong -- not to speak of the injury to his (Cornwell's) own  integrity, his reputation, his church, and (dare I say it) his God.  Of  course he will rake in dollars, but I hope he doesn't find the price too  high.  In the end, we will have to wait for eternity to see the full  truth.<br />However, in the interests of bringing some balance, here's a small  selection of quotes by those who have a real and direct interest in whether  Pacelli really was &quot;Hitler's Pope&quot;:<br />*  Jeno Levai, a Jew and  leading Holocaust scholar, said that Pope Pius XII &quot;did more than  anyone else to halt the dreadful crime and alleviate its  consequences&quot;, and elsewhere: &quot;From that day on, acting in  accordance with the instructions of the Holy See and always in the name of  Pius XII, the Nuncio never ceased from intervening against the disposition  concerning Jews, and the inhuman character of the anti-Jewish  Legislation.&quot;<br />*  Rabbi Herzog, Chief Rabbi of Jerusalem:  &quot;The  people of Israel will never forget what His Holiness (Pius XII) and his  illustrious delegates, inspired by the eternal principles of religion which  form the very foundations of true civilization, are doing for us  unfortunate brothers and sisters in the most tragic hour of our history,  which is living proof of divine  Providence in this world.&quot;<br />*  Emilio Zolli, Chief Rabbi in Rome during the German occupation: &quot;no  hero in all of history was more militant, more fought against, none more  heroic, than Pius XII.&quot;  Zolli was so moved by Pius XII's work that  after the War be became a Catholic.  He took the Pope's name as his  baptismal name.<br />*  Albert Einstein noted that to prevent the Holocaust,  &quot;only the Church stood squarely across the path of Hitler's campaign  for suppressing the truth.&quot;<br />*  Chaim Weizmann, first president of  Israel (1949-52), writing during the war:  &quot;The Holy See is lending  its powerful help wherever it can, to mitigate the fate of my persecuted  coreligionists.&quot;<br />*  Moshe Sharett, Israel's first foreign minister  and second prime minister, upon meeting Pope Pius XII during the war:  &quot;I told [the Pope] that my first duty was to thank him, and through  him, the Catholic Church, on behalf of the Jewish public, for all they had  done in various countries to save Jews, to save children, and Jews in  general.  We are deeply grateful to the Catholic Church.&quot;<br />*  Pinchas  E. Lapide, Israeli consul in Italy for a number of years:  &quot;The  Catholic Church saved more Jewish lives during the war than all the other  churches, religious institutions, and rescue organizations put together.  Its record stands in startling contrast to the achievements of the  International Red Cross and the Western democracies ... The Holy See, the  Nuncios and the entire Catholic Church saved some 400 000 Jews from certain  death.&quot;  [The latter figure was officially recognized by the State of  Israel with the planting of over 400 000 trees in remembrance of the  efforts of the Vatican and the Catholic Church.]<br />*  Pinchas E. Lapide,  Israeli consul in Italy, again:  &quot;When an armed force ruled well-nigh  omnipotent, and morality was at its lowest ebb, Pius XII commanded none of  the former and could only appeal to the latter, in confronting, with bare  hands, the full might of evil.  A sounding protest, which might turn out to  be self-thwarting - or quiet piecemeal rescue?  Loud words or prudent  deeds?  The dilemma must have been sheer agony, for whatever course he  chose, horrible consequences were inevitable.  Unable to cure the sickness  of an entire civilization, and unwilling to bear the brunt of Hitler's  fury, the Pope, unlike many far mightier than he, alleviated, relieved,  retrieved, appealed, petitioned and saved as best he could by his own  lights.  Who, but a prophet or a martyr could have done much more?&quot;<br />*  Nahum Goldmann, president of the World Jewish Congress, wrote: \\"With  special gratitude we remember all he has done for the persecuted Jews  during one of the darkest periods in their entire history.\\"  In 1945, the  World Jewish Congress had made a gift of $20 000 to Vatican charities in  recognition of the work of the Holy See in rescuing Jews from persecution;  and an interoffice memorandum, written a year earlier by a WJC official  closely involved in the Congress' pleas to Pius XII for help for the Jews  of Poland, reads: \\"The Catholic Church in Europe has been extraordinarily  helpful to us in a multitude of ways.  From Hinsley in London to Pacelli in  Rome, to say nothing of the anonymous priests in Holland, France, and  elsewhere, they have done very notable things for us.\\"<br />*  At the United  Nations, Israeli Foreign Affairs Minister Golda Meier, said: &quot;We share  the grief of the world over the death of His Holiness Pius XII.  During a  generation of wars and dissensions, he affirmed the high ideals of peace  and compassion.  During the ten years of Nazi terror, when our people went  through the horrors of martyrdom, the Pope raised his voice to condemn the  persecutors and to commiserate with their victims.  The life of our time  has been enriched by a voice which expressed the great moral truths above  the tumults of daily conflicts.  We grieve over the loss of a great  defender of peace.\\"<br />*  Pope Pius XII, in fact, showed admirable prudence  in his decisions to help suffering souls. He was faced with the dilemma of  protesting too much and thereby increasing the persecutions of hostages and  prisoners as he actively worked to prevent more people from being  incarcerated.  The words of Pope Pius XII reflect this:  &quot;Every word  that We addressed to the responsible authorities and every one of Our  public declarations had to be seriously weighed and considered in the  interest of the persecuted themselves in order to not make their situation  unwittingly even more difficult and unbearable.&quot;<br />*  Pope Pius XII  was concerned not only for his prime responsibility but his solicitude  extended to all people.  In a then-secret communication to the Hungarian  sovereign (now published, but ignored by Cornwell) Pacelli said:  &quot;We  are being beseeched in various quarters to do everything in our power in  order that, in this noble and chivalrous nation, the sufferings, already so  heavy, endured by a large number of unfortunate people, because of their  nationality or race, may not be extended and aggravated.  As our Father's  heart cannot remain insensitive to these pressing supplications by virtue  of our ministry of charity which embraces all men, we address Your Highness  personally, appealing to your noble sentiments in full confidence that you  will do everything in your power that so many unfortunate people may be  spared other afflictions and other sorrows.&quot;<br />*  On Christmas eve of  1941 the New York Times editorial said about Pius XII: \\"Yet his words sound  strange and bold in the Europe of today, and we comprehend the complete  submergence andenslavement of great nations, the very sources of our  civilization, as we realize that he is about the only ruler left on the  Continent of Europe who dares to raise his voice at all.  The last tiny  islands of neutrality are so hemmed in and overshadowed by war and fear  that no one but the Pope is still able to speak aloud in the name of the  Prince of Peace.  This is indeed a measure of the moral devastation he  describes as the accompaniment of physical ruin and inconceivable human  suffering ...  In calling for a real new order based on liberty, justice and  love ... the Pope put himself squarely against Hitlerism...\\"<br />*  On Christmas  Day 1942, the New York Times again praised Pius XII as a &quot;lonely voice  crying out of the silence of a continent.&quot;<br />*  Mr &amp; Mrs  Wolfsson of Berlin, a Jewish couple who, after being in prison and  concentration camps, took shelter in a German convent of nuns.  Pope Pius  XII had an audience with them and arranged for them to escape to Spain.  Long afterwards the Wolfssons declared:  &quot;None of us wanted the Pope  to take an open stand.  We were all fugitives, and fugitives do not wish to  be pointed at.  The Gestapo would have become more excited and would have  intensified its inquisitions.  If the Pope had protested, Rome would have  become the center of attention ... we all shared this opinionof martyrdom, the Pope raised his voice to condemn the  persecutors and to commiserate with their victims.  The life of our time  has been enriched by a voice which expressed the great moral truths above  the tumults of daily conflicts.  We grieve over the loss of a great  defender of peace.\\"<br />*  Pope Pius XII, in fact, showed admirable prudence  in his decisions to help suffering souls. He was faced with the dilemma of  protesting too much and thereby increasing the persecutions of hostages and  prisoners as he actively worked to prevent more people from being  incarcerated.  The words of Pope Pius XII reflect this:  &quot;Every word  that We addressed to the responsible authorities and every one of Our  public declarations had to be seriously weighed and considered in the  interest of the persecuted themselves in order to not make their situation  unwittingly even more difficult and unbearable.&quot;<br />*  Pope Pius XII  was concerned not only for his prime responsibility but his solicitude  extended to all people.  In a then-secret communication to the Hungarian  sovereign (now published, but ignored by Cornwell) Pacelli said:  &quot;We  are being beseeched in various quarters to do everything in our power in  order that, in this noble and chivalrous nation, the sufferings, already so  heavy, endured by a large number of unfortunate people, because of their  nationality or race, may not be extended and aggravated.  As our Father's  heart cannot remain insensitive to these pressing supplications by virtue  of our ministry of charity which embraces all men, we address Your Highness  personally, appealing to your noble sentiments in full confidence that you  will do everything in your power that so many unfortunate people may be  spared other afflictions and other sorrows.&quot;<br />*  On Christmas eve of  1941 the New York Times editorial said about Pius XII: \\"Yet his words sound  strange and bold in the Europe of today, and we comprehend the complete  submergence and enslavement of great nations, the very sources of our  civilization, as we realize that he is about the only ruler left on the  Continent of Europe who dares to raise his voice at all.  The last tiny  islands of neutrality are so hemmed in and overshadowed by war and fear  that no one but the Pope is still able to speak aloud in the name of the  Prince of Peace.  This is indeed a measure of the moral devastation he  describes as the accompaniment of physical ruin and inconceivable human  suffering ...   In calling for a real new order based on liberty, justice and  love ... the Pope put himself squarely against Hitlerism...\\"<br />*  On Christmas  Day 1942, the New York Times again praised Pius XII as a &quot;lonely voice  crying out of the silence of a continent.&quot;   <br />*  Mr &amp; Mrs  Wolfsson of Berlin, a Jewish couple who, after being in prison and  concentration camps, took shelter in a German convent of nuns.  Pope Pius  XII had an audience with them and arranged for them to escape to Spain.   Long afterwards the Wolfssons declared:  &quot;None of us wanted the Pope  to take an open stand.  We were all fugitives, and fugitives do not wish to  be pointed at.  The Gestapo would have become more excited and would have  intensified its inquisitions.  If the Pope had protested, Rome would have  become the center of attention ... we all shared this opinion	1999-09-22
US	53096078	RW9SMJ9JIL3WR	0670823872	807049127	A Thief in the Night: Death of Pope John Paul I	Books	1	9	20	N	N	Lovely fiction	Eight out of ten for suspense and plot. But this book should be under &quot;Fiction&quot;.  Very sad to see that Cornwell lets his private journalistic ambition sully his integrity as a writer of supposed  &quot;history&quot;.  This man has a clear agenda: vilify the Vatican in  every possible way, cast aspersions on those who cannot defend themselves,  and where possible make the Catholic Church generally and the Vatican  &quot;establishment&quot; in particular look like a bunch of power-hungry  egomaniacs and a den of thieves.  Sadly, many ignorant Catholics and  non-Catholics won't know enough to refute his slander, and this book is  wonderful fodder to anti-Catholics.  Avoid this trashy  &quot;journalism&quot;.	1999-09-07
US	53096078	RJG88HSW9AG3O	0684832194	837864227	What Our Mothers Didn't Tell Us : Why Happiness Eludes the Modern Woman	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Another salvo for liberation	Of course feminists won't like this book: its basic message is that the me!me!me! and self-fulfilment now! anthem is really a Death March.  Another salvo in the culture war that'll be remembered as a strike for freedom.  I'll be giving copies of this book to every newly-wed and expectant mother  I know.	1999-08-29
US	53096078	R1SMAB2O3Q7O0D	0879738510	298492856	By What Authority?: An Evangelical Discovers Catholic Tradition	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Unputdownable	Of course this isn't an exhaustive review of the Authority issue (there are dozens of excellent books on this subject) but rather an account of the author's odyssey from 'sola scriptura' to full communion with the universal  church, and the outlines of his struggle to find deeper truth.  A  thoroughly enjoyable read, and recommended.  I've already ordered Shea's  next book here on Amazon.	1999-08-29
US	53096078	R3D359EOZY3FRK	0684843161	123160711	A RETURN TO MODESTY: Discovering the Lost Virtue	Books	4	27	33	N	N	Tide is turning	The feminist critics in these reviews are right on one thing: don't expect an academic exposition of the sex wars.  This is trench warfare, and Ms Shalit is making a dash for the next line under heavy machine-gun fire.  She's right, of course, and I can highly recommend this book for those who  still don't know how devastating our postmodern culture has become for  young women today.  I wonder if promiscuists realise how they buy into a  false dualism which splits body from soul: women who surrender their bodies  to uncommitted men surrender also their inner selves (what used to be  called the soul). No wonder the feminists are up in arms -- Shalit shows  anecdotally how our society is the most misogynist in history as today's  men systematically get away with what amounts to consensual rape.  Ms  Shalit's thesis has much merit, and her objective is spot-on -- women  should close ranks and re-establish the sexual cartel which keep sex inside  marriage.  My only disappointment, though it's not the purpose of her book,  is she neglects to examine the deleterious effects of free sex on men (if  there are any real men left). Do yourself and our culture a favor -- give  this book to every young woman (and man) you know.	1999-08-29
US	53096078	R1O8VBNKCKP97V	1565071077	330449998	The Gospel According to Rome: Comparing Catholic Tradition and the Word of God	Books	1	27	55	N	N	Another testament to ignorance	What better way of finding out what Catholics REALLY believe than from an anti-catholic!  If you want a neatly printed sophomoric collation of tired old anti-Catholic untruths, there are better books than this.  Of course,  if it's your wont, ignore authentic presentations of the Catholic faith  (such as the Catechism), scripture, and many widely recognised explications  of the Faith.  The McCarthy's need a good dose of Scott Hahn videos and  tapes to blow away the fust.  Prayer will also help, since their ignorance  is invincible, and their error so manifest.  Yawn.	1999-07-29
US	53096078	R1R6B2B9R5VIMS	0679447946	140039143	Working on God	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Timid and sadly ignorant	What a disappointment. Another in a long line of &quot;esoteric&quot; spirituality &quot;discover, explore, get in touch&quot; books, aptly written in the jargon of 1990s American urban professionals. Buys into a  body-spirit dualism that, in the name of &quot;authentic  spirituality&quot;, allows us to do anything we want with matter - a moral  slippery slope. Ultimately a timid book, afraid to embrace the radical  consequences of adopting a religion that makes real demands on overcoming  the limitations of one's little self. Sadly ignorant of history (ie the  experience of others before us). Will not satisfy even the neoagnostic  searchers who hunger for Truth.	1999-04-03
US	53096078	R2WIVQ3D68KJZR	0898705797	33914316	Ecumenical Jihad: Ecumenism and the Culture War	Books	4	12	22	N	N	Hard-hitting exposition of the Real War	I'm left with two senses after reading this book: (1) sadness licked with fear -- the world as we know and love it is disappearing, almost gone.  At least in the West.  (2)  Resolve renewed and steeled that we can and MUST join the jihad against the Great Satan by embracing God's cause most earnesly in our personal lives (metanoia, charity) and in the public square.  A particularly brilliant summary of what Christians can and must find in common with Conficianism, Buddhism, Islam, and Judaism.  A delightful dialogue with Conficius, Buddha, Mohammed and Moses, as well as a trialogue with Martin Luther, Thomas Aquinas, and CS Lewis.  Nothing is more urgent or more important, and Kreeft makes the case convincingly.	1998-08-10
