US	53094487	R2VDA2QH9C666A	0375707336	448084008	Checklists for Life: 104 Lists to Help You Get Organized, Save Time, and Unclutter Your Life	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	I'm a believer	Count me as someone who longs to be efficient and organized, but who hasn't quite got the hang of it.  Along came Kirsten Lagatree with roadmaps for dozens of real life events, and now, even though I'm not necessarily more organized, I am more prepared to deal with travel needs, house issues and even disasters.  Frankly, I hope I never have to deal with much of what she covers in this book, but I'm thrilled that she has taken the time to share this info with us.<br /><br />This book will go a long way towards helping you pull things together.	2005-08-11
US	53094487	R3N8Q2VZZ8MIZX	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	5	255	276	N	N	I'm a little surprised...	I've read through about a dozen reviews so far and I'm rather surprised that no one seems to have gone beyond the obvious discussion of this book.  We all see that these are interesting vignettes about how time might behave in different realities.  But beyond that, these are vignettes about how we live.  Take, for example, the vignette about the world where you can gain time by moving faster and faster.  Because time is money, businesses fly about the town on wheels, powered by huge engines.  Inside the office building, desks zip around each floor.  The faster the workers move, the greater their productivity.  There is one problem though, that of perception of the velocity of others.  And sometimes a worker will become so upset by his perception that others are moving faster than he is, he will stop moving at all.  He will retire to his home, pull down the shades and live within his family.  Live a simple, content life without all the rushing about.  This is a pretty clear metaphor for the increasing speed at which we live, and those who reject the need to live in that manner.<br />Some vignettes are simple to interpret -- the world where time moves more and more slowly until, as you get to the center of the town, it almost stops.  People go there to preserve a childhood, a love, their lives.  A kiss can be nearly infinite.  Children grow more slowly than redwoods, and never lose their innocence.  Some are more difficult.  But each one carries some deeper meaning about human life, and how we choose to live it.  And the narrative of Einstein as a patent clerk echoes those ideas, as you watch the choices he's made.<br />This book isn't simply about bringing together science and literature, it's about science and philosophy, science and human nature.  It's about how each of us lives so differently, we might all be living in a different temporal reality.  Quite simply, it's a wonderful book, that will make you think, and stay with you for a long time.  Highly recommended.ded.	2004-05-12
US	53094487	R29PVHOE490Y2Q	1592530192	766458924	Artists' Journals and Sketchbooks: Exploring and Creating Personal Pages	Books	5	138	142	N	Y	Yes, you do need this book	I don't care how many books you have on altered books, artists' journals, etc., this is a book you'll come back to over and over again.  It presents material in an orderly fashion, though never in a predictable one.  Not only is each technique or idea explained, but there are examples of each.  The only people who might not benefit from this book are the ones who need a literal cookbook of instructions: &quot;Take item A, place three inches from top of item B, on the left.&quot;  Highly recommended both as inspiration and an easy-to-use reference work.	2004-04-20
US	53094487	R17XITOXMIY121	0688148948	740859438	Interior Alchemy: Secrets to Creating Expressive Ambience	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Not for the faint of heart	Upfront here:  If you're the sort who likes to have your space organized, if you dislike the shabby, the thrift store look, the impression of disrepair, do not bother with this book.  Purcell leans heavily on the idea that interior fantasy is built up of layers of eccentric, aged, lived-in objects and artifacts, and the result, while remarkable, is not going to be to everyone's taste.<br />Purcell's aesthetic is dark, and even a bit threatening.  It's eccentric rather than whimsical, and that's not a bad thing.  It's just that it can be a bit overwhelming.  (If you're looking for a modified version of this, one with a lighter feel, check out Tracy Porter.)  It makes heavy use of thrift store finds, but in these days of shabby chic, this look isn't as thrifty as it used to be.  One room features a grouping of very large composition dolls.  Granted, they're damaged and rather ratty-looking, but all the same, scoring a single large compo doll can be pricey.  Half a dozen is likely to set you back quite a bit of money.  And that's more or less true of many of the design ideas here.  Very nice things (or at least things so odd that you're going to have to go to some lengths to find a good analog) artfully arranged so that they look kind of neglected.  Cha-ching!  That's gonna cost you.<br />Over all, I'd have to say that Interior Alchemy, is a great book for those who are not timid about their decorating, who have either some serious spare change or spare time, and who are already more or less on this path of crowded, eccentric spaces.  The fantasy level here is enormous, and if it's worth it to you to do the work, then this is a grand resource.  To most people, I'd say, start with something a little less ambitious.	2004-04-06
US	53094487	R346Z5X42GVKNB	0804710309	300962540	Daily Life in Russia under the Last Tsar	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Extraordinary picture of pre-revolutionary Russia	I have stacks of books about this era, and about Russia in general, but none of them give the flavor of the time and place quite so vividly as Troyat's narrative.  He follows the adventures of a British businessman who is virtually adopted by a Russian family during his first visit to Moscow.  The descriptions of family life, night life -- including the theater, the ballet, and restaurants and cabarets, of religion, and even of the streets, are filtered through the consciousness of a stranger, and so are more clearly described and, where necessary, explained than in books in which everyday life is more of a background to the rest of the narrative.<br />If you're a student of Russian history, particularly the history of this particular era, this book is highly recommended.  For writers who are researching the era, this is on the level of the Writer's Digest &quot;Everyday Life...&quot; series for information, and really indispensable.  Even so, this is not some dry text.  It's lively and occasionally amusing, and always fascinating.	2004-02-17
US	53094487	R9YR2PYMQRK3R	0966803051	353908122	The Secret Life of Humphrey Bogart: The Early Years (1899-1931)	Books	1	59	67	N	Y	This has to be a joke	Possibly the worst-written bio I've ever read, and the most unbelievable.  Here's a quick run-down so you don't have to bother:<br /><br />1) Everyone has slept with everyone else except for Bogart and Bette Davis. Everyone. No point in keeping score because they're all doing it.<br />2) Most surreal moment, hands down, is George O'Brien showing Bogie an intimate part of his anatomy (and probably not the one you're thinking of!) and then explaining how he keeps it so young-looking, and tasty.<br />3) Most interactions between people include long conversations which the author could not possibly have been privy to, including a lot of pillow talk. Draw your own conclusions.<br />4) The narrative is riddled with inconsistencies as small as an inability to decide whether Bogart's favorite meal was ham and eggs or bacon and eggs (and who really cares anyway?), and as large as one minute he likes a salty-talking babe and the next he finds her incredibly vulgar and off-putting.<br />5) Removed by reviewer so as not to offend anyone.<br />6) The single most cliche-ridden text I have ever had the misfortune to read.<br />7) The author manages to make real people, people like Marlene Dietrich, Joan Crawford and Douglas Fairbanks (Jr and Sr) seem like caricatures or pieces of wood...or both.<br />8) By page 400, any salacious thrills have descended to the level of \\"Please your mate\\" spam.<br />9) Bogart comes across very badly; if you're a big fan, skip this. There are only so many times he can be shocked by the goings-on before you start to want to give him a dime to buy a clue. At best, the author writes him like a teenage girl.<br />10) Every attempt at conveying a deeply emotional scene is hilariously inept.<br /><br />I feel like I need a great big brush to clean out my brain, now.  If I could give negative stars, this book would've earned a -5.	2003-11-24
US	53094487	RNSMUGSXOC1K8	0743237501	698967662	Last Stop Vienna: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	Y	Disappointing	Nagorski is probably an excellent journalist.  He can write, but his characterization and plotting aren't up to snuff here.  The protagonist (I hesitate to use the word \\"hero\\" in this case.) is a young man who learns absolutely nothing in the nearly 300 pages of this book.  He begins as an angry, irresponsible teenager who deserts his widowed mother in the aftermath of the first World War, and he ends as a prisoner who comes to hate the man (Hitler) he once worshipped, but still shares Hitler's values and beliefs.  Perhaps this would have worked in a book about private people, but once you involve a public figure like Hitler, the story you're telling will grow to fit the myth that surrounds that figure.<br /><br />I think referring to this novel as an alternate history is perhaps misleading.  The event which makes it so occurs at the very end of the novel, and we're never really given any indication of how the event changes history as we know it.  And that too, is a disappointment.	2003-03-09
US	53094487	R2PVE2KXCPOKCC	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	A bit thin, but cogent nonetheless	Vidal is not prone to hyperbole, nor is he a dealer in questionable &quot;facts.&quot;  He is a defender of the American Republic, and the laws which were designed to uphold and defend that Republic.  Laws which have been under attack by both the right and the left since the end of WWII.<br />This book will leave you angry, it will leave you sad.  Perhaps it will leave you with a desire to do something to try to preserve the organizing principles of this country.  At the very least, you should come to understand why the United States has, since the second World War, become symbolic of tyranny, injustice and even terrorism to so many people on this planet.<br />It's time to stop kidding ourselves that we're hated because we have more, because we're richer or more powerful, or have more freedoms.  We're hated, in large part, because we have, since 1947, been waging perpetual war all over the globe.	2003-02-21
US	53094487	RYX451GD5D57V	048623844X	11666723	Rackham's Fairy Tale Coloring Book (Dover Classic Stories Coloring Book)	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Wonderful coloring book for adults and children	I decided to revisit my childhood recently, and ordered a stack of coloring books.  The Rackham is by far the prettiest of the lot.  You can attempt to emulate Rackham's earthy palette, or you can go wild and use every bright color in the box.  Either way, you'll have a wonderful time coloring these complex, sinuous, lovely illustrations.  And the fairytales are a bonus.  Something for when you're sick in bed, or just feeling down and looking for a bit of comfort.	2002-05-29
US	53094487	R3CUPZ4WVF3YNW	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A remarkable introduction to Hemmingway	Apart from an abortive attempt at &quot;The Old Man and the Sea&quot; in high school, I managed to avoid Hemmingway for fifty years.  Now I wonder why.  &quot;A Moveable Feast&quot; is so enchanting, so fascinating with its tart, funny, incisive portraits of Stein, Pound, Fitzgerald and others that I feel sad to have missed it for so long.<br />Why Hemmingway took so long to write this memoir is anyone's guess, but perhaps the older writer understood things the younger one only lived.  Whatever the reason, AMF is a wonderful mixture of the perspective of age and the enthusiasm of youth.  It's a lovely portrait of a city where people too poor to own a cat can afford a cook and a nurse for their son.  It's a tale of a writer writing, reading everything he can borrow from Shakespeare and Company, getting to know artists and authors and loving Paris and Parisians.  If you read no other Hemmingway in your life, read this.	2002-05-29
US	53094487	R2EZNDZNG55EYC	0966480503	549770209	The Coloring Book for Big Girls	Books	4	32	33	N	Y	Nice if you're into the Goddess space	This isn't a coloring book for everyone.  If you're at all offended by pagan-type images, don't bother with it.  There are amazon and goddess images all the way through.  A number of the images are also nude or semi-nude.  If none of that bothers you, if in fact you're a pagan or pagan-friendly, or you're open to mythic images of women, then you might well enjoy this.  The compositions range from simple to complex, and there is a nice diversity in the size, shape and racial characteristics of the figures.<br />The paper will take crayon, colored pencils, or markers  with ease.  I don't think I'd try painting in this (or any other) coloring book because the pages are just not heavy enough to resist some serious warping.<br />I have to say, I think it's a bit thin over-all.  A little text would have been a welcome addition or even a space for you to create your own story about the image.  But that's a small quibble.  On the whole, I'm enjoying this book more than the others I bought at the same time.	2002-05-29
US	53094487	R311XXAFW4CJA7	081541157X	383485481	Lennon in America: 1971-1980, Based in Part on the Lost Lennon Diaries	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	Interesting but disturbing	I'm always a little skeptical of celeb bios which paint portraits of their subjects as being so totally dysfunctional that you can barely comprehend how they manage to get through a day in the real world.  Giuliano's bio of John Lennon is on the thin, sharp edge of this territory, giving us a Lennon so sex, drug and Yoko-addled that he's lost virtually all of his creativity.  What we're seeing is almost a walking corpse.  It's almost a relief when Chapman kills him.  Thats a terrible way to feel about anyone, much less someone who was a kind of hero.  There's part of me that resents bios like this.<br />Giuliano, who is seen in photos being terribly chummy with Yoko and Sean, nevertheless trashes her as an artist and a human being with such apparent glee that the word \\"hypocrite\\" came screaming to mind.  If you had bad feelings about Yoko, this book will only confirm them.  If you had no bad feelings about Giuliano when you started reading, you might just have them by the time you finish.<br />Did I enjoy this book?  No.  But I did finish reading it, a tribute to Giuliano's easy style, and the prurient nature of the human mind.  It's hard to look away from a train wreck.	2002-05-29
US	53094487	R2JP3DVKOXQ02G	0375503803	332508756	Sailing Alone Around the Room: New and Selected Poems	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	Told in the simple things	More and more I appreciate the poem that brings poetry down to the familiar, even the mundane.  A cup of coffee and a cigarette, or the way leaves look just before a storm.  Billy Collins is a master of this kind of simplicity.  He grounds you firmly in the world, and then lets the truth of it open out before you.  Accessible though never simplistic, direct and dryly funny, Collins is a gem.  Read him.	2002-04-10
US	53094487	R10DBIMN54DP1A	0807050083	80826783	Secrets of Saffron: The Vagabond Life of the World's Most Seductive Spice	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Not just for saffron lovers	Saffron is, in my opinion, one of the greatest flavoring agents in the world.  I'm partial to it in baked goods and dairy products, and have developed my own recipe for saffron ice cream which is so addictive that I don't dare make it often.  The finest (and incidentally the most expensive) wine I ever drank had a distinct saffron note to it which made the experience of drinking supremely heady.  Saffron is mysterious to most people, even experienced cooks, and for many an acquired taste.<br />Pat Willard's book, though it does offer a number of saffron-rich recipes, is primarily a history of the spice and its travels.  But even more compelling is the personal content, the stories of Willard's own involvement with saffron which range from amusing (her red silk bodice and almost-but-not-quite association with the SCA) to poignant (her saffron-rich creme brulee pie, created while trying to hold off the worst of the grief over her mother's death.)  Willard has a gift for personalizing her work, and even though some of what she writes has an almost confessional quality, her stories are never less than graceful.<br />The recipes she includes are often quite old, and can be difficult to follow for modern cooks, but there are also more contemporary recipes which will whet your appetite for saffron.  If reading about food is as pleasurable for you as cooking and eating, then this book will be a good addition to your shelves.	2001-12-20
US	53094487	RTEW57BY7QJGX	0809429845	530482999	Fruits: The Good Cook Techniques & Recipes	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Worth the search	I'm a great fan of this &quot;Good Cook&quot; series from Time-Life.  Since they were first published back in the 70s, I believe, they've been cornerstones of my cookbook collection.  Now out of print, they're difficult to find, and worth the usual asking price.<br />Each volume covers a particular subject such as fruits, vegetables, salads, pork, cakes, etc.  And each takes you through the most basic information about the subject, through profusely illustrated techniques used for cooking with the food in question, and finally to an index of recipes using those techniques.  The information is clear and concise, the illustrations are incredibly useful and the recipes are all straightforward enough even for someone like me who judges recipes by 1) How many ingredients it requires (&quot;Nope, too much stuff, next recipe.&quot;) or 2) How long it's likely to take. (&quot;I'll be cooking for days!  Next recipe.&quot;)<br />I recommend these books both for cooks who may be a little weak in one of the subjects (Fruits are one of mine; I tend to view them strictly as thing to eat out of hand, or flavoring agents.) or, conversely, is very passionate about one of the subjects and wants a volume full of useful information and recipes.<br />Absolutely worth the search.	2001-12-16
US	53094487	R3Q3J3TF1E2Y8P	0618007148	183743973	One Potato, Two Potato	Books	4	38	38	N	Y	Not just for spud lovers	I suspect that the die-hard potato lovers of the world will take this book to heart.  I hope the not-so-committed will also want to pick it up because it contains a wealth of fantastic recipes which show just how versatile the potato (in all its incarnations) really is.<br />How difficult are the recipes?  They vary, but I can tell you that you can get some spectacular results even with some of the easiest.  The Gratin Dauphinoise, for example, is a simple dish of sliced potatoes, cream, milk and cheese, but the look and taste of it suggests that it took you hours to prepare.  And there really is nothing quite so good as cold gratin the morning after.<br />Unless you're a potato fanatic, I don't know that you'll use the majority of the recipes here, but I do think that unless you hate potatoes (In which case why even read this review?) you'll find at least a few new recipes that you and your family really enjoy.  Give it a try.	2001-12-16
US	53094487	R17GSSV2JPRYY5	0312420331	603875347	Crash: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Points for subject matter if not for execution	This is a case of a derivative work being superior to the original, IMO.  I came to the novel because I found the film so compelling.  True, the two share a fascinating take on the relation of man and technology in their exploration of the eroticism of one of the more iconic pieces of machinery ever created: the automobile.  But this isn't just doing-it-in-the-back-seat-of-the-Chevy sex, this is kinky, body-modification-by-violent-means sex.<br />Ballard's characters are obsessed with car crashes and the way in which the human body and mind are forever altered by the experience.  There is an obsession with scarring, with wounds, with broken bones and torn flesh, with body fluids and the way violent impact can force them from us.  This is ground-breaking stuff, thought-provoking and troubling in ways that aren't pleasant to think about.  Unfortunately, whether it's that Ballard's style isn't conducive to conveying the eroticism in any visceral way or whether the sheer length of this story works against it, the novel never really grabbed hold of my imagination.<br />I had a sense, as I slogged through the latter half of the book, that I was reading a short story in novel's clothing.  It feels padded to me, and highly repetitive.  The erotic frisson of engine coolant as a kind of sexual musk lost its charm after the first dozen times it was evoked.  Ballard's sexual vocabulary here is clinical in the extreme which may work in terms of distancing the reader from sex on wholly human terms, but it works too well.  Held at a distance by the words he chooses, it's hard to get a feel for the implied eroticism of the subject matter.  It's all too cerebral, too cold and mechanical.  The machine is all, and humans might as well be made of metal, too.<br />I give points for the chances he took, but subtract them for the unnecessarily sterile way in which he took them.	2001-12-12
US	53094487	R9C18U50AW3WY	0312246552	364692194	Uncle Mame: The Life of Patrick Dennis	Books	3	33	35	N	N	Curiously uninvolving	Some of the best-loved and best-remembered reads of my early adolescence were the books of Patrick Dennis.  &quot;Auntie Mame&quot; left a nearly indelible impression, while its sequel, and the novels &quot;The Joyous Season,&quot; &quot;Tony,&quot; and &quot;Little Me&quot; were as eagerly devoured if not quite as unforgettable.  On the recommendation of a friend I picked up a copy of &quot;Uncle Mame&quot; certain that I was going to be wildly entertained, but alas it was not so.<br />I don't really know why this book didn't capture my imagination, though I do know that throughout, Dennis (nee Edward Everett Tanner III, aka, Pat Tanner) remains a somewhat shadowy figure, aloof and unapproachable.  Myers never closes the gap between Tanner and his readers or indeed, between Tanner and himself.  I had the impression that for all the delving into Tanner's life, particularly the facts of his sexuality, Myers is no more familiar with the subject of his book than is the reader.  I don't necessarily blame the author; it's clear he's done his legwork on this book, interviewing those friends and family members who survived Tanner.  It's just that the information as presented casts no revealing light on the man.  We're told over and over again that Pat Tanner is a charming, gracious man, but see little evidence of it.  We're told of his process of self-discovery, in re. his sexuality (And I give points to Myers for the way he handles it, unfolding the facts slowly rather than making it a primary issue from page one.) but I never got a real feel for either his conflict or the blunt reality of his homosexuality.<br />Oddly, the book comes alive when Myers is discussing the other people in Tanner's life. In particular, his crazy aunt Marian lends herself to some very vivid narrative.  Marian always claimed she was the original inspiration for Mame Dennis, though Pat always denied this absolutely.  Either way, she's an unforgettable character, and Myers is at his best when writing about her misadventures.  Also fascinating is the material about two of Pat's best friends, Cris Alexander and Shaun O'Brian.  Cris in particular comes across as a vivid, creative, funny man, and I found myself wishing that the book had been about him and his partner, O'Brian, rather than Tanner.<br />To be fair, I think Meyers was constrained by Tanner's personality.  He seems a creature of opposites.  Over and over, it's said that he was a kind, generous, gentleman, but his own words are cool (even cold), sardonic and frequently waspish, and paint a very different picture.  His children adored him, we are told, but in the same chapter we learn that he ruled them with an iron will, often shamed them into good behavior, and preferred to teach them to play bridge or mix martinis for his guests, than to do parent-type things with them.  We're told that he and his wife, Louise, loved one another deeply, but see scant evidence that they were more than just buddies who produced two children together before she and Pat separated when he felt the need to be more honest about his sexuality.  We're told that he was generous to a fault to crazy aunt Marian, but his letters to her are cold and self-justifying, explaining that he has very little money himself (hardly true; he lived extremely well) and can't spare any more for her.  And certainly while there was no reason for him to continue to support her, the tone he takes with her made me uncomfortable in light of all the praise that had been sung on his sweet nature.  Over and over, we're told one thing and shown another.<br />In the end, Tanner comes across as a sad, eccentric man who was easy to like but hard to know.  I suspect that the force of his personality is not something that can be captured in print.  I would recommend this book with reservations.  If you're a huge fan of Tanner's work or interested in post-war New York, this might be just the book for you.ing about her misadventures.  Also fascinating is the material about two of Pat's best friends, Cris Alexander and Shaun O'Brian.  Cris in particular comes across as a vivid, creative, funny man, and I found myself wishing that the book had been about him and his partner, O'Brian, rather than Tanner.<br />To be fair, I think Meyers was constrained by Tanner's personality.  He seems a creature of opposites.  Over and over, it's said that he was a kind, generous, gentleman, but his own words are cool (even cold), sardonic and frequently waspish, and paint a very different picture.  His children adored him, we are told, but in the same chapter we learn that he ruled them with an iron will, often shamed them into good behavior, and preferred to teach them to play bridge or mix martinis for his guests, than to do parent-type things with them.  We're told that he and his wife, Louise, loved one another deeply, but see scant evidence that they were more than just buddies who produced two children together before she and Pat separated when he felt the need to be more honest about his sexuality.  We're told that he was generous to a fault to crazy aunt Marian, but his letters to her are cold and self-justifying, explaining that he has very little money himself (hardly true; he lived extremely well) and can't spare any more for her.  And certainly while there was no reason for him to continue to support her, the tone he takes with her made me uncomfortable in light of all the praise that had been sung on his sweet nature.  Over and over, we're told one thing and shown another.<br />In the end, Tanner comes across as a sad, eccentric man who was easy to like but hard to know.  I suspect that the force of his personality is not something that can be captured in print.  I would recommend this book with reservations.  If you're a huge fan of Tanner's work or interested in post-war New York, this might be just the book for you.	2001-12-01
US	53094487	R96JY8UYM5AUH	0696201887	316238109	Better Homes and Gardens New Cook Book (Three Ring Binder Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I love this cookbook	Even the sight of that red and white cover makes me almost weepily nostalgic.  I grew up on the 19__(mumble mumble) edition which is still sitting out on my counter, stuffed with yellowing newspaper recipe clippings for Christmas cookies and little cards with Aunt Gerda's goulash or Lorelei's spinach dip.  That's the sort of cookbook this is.  It's an heirloom; it can be the anchor of a collection, the place you go back to over and over again because the simple, direct recipes and information contained in it are so very useful, concise and direct.<br />This isn't just about specific recipes, it's about being a good cook, about learning the basics and applying them to increasingly complicated recipes.  It's about menu planning, nutrition and everything you need to be the kind of cook you know you want to be.  And it's about holding on to something essential, something permanent that will be with you long after you get tired of trying to cook Sechuan meals, roll your own sushi or make your own mozzarella.<br />Who knows?  Twenty years from now it might find its way into the boxes destined for your son's or daughter's new kitchen.	2001-11-21
US	53094487	RU4OXQZQXVOBA	0374512183	958117728	My Mother's House and Sido	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The essence of Colette	There are many Colettes, and I cherish them all.  But the one dearest to me is the Colette who wrote so lovingly and voluptuously of her early years.  In &quot;My Mother's House&quot; and &quot;Sido&quot; Colette writes about her family, her childhood in the country, and the creatures - human and otherwise - which informed those years.<br />In her writing about these years, Colette describes the inner life of children, country life, and her parents and their odd, affectionate and often difficult relationship with each other and with their children.  We have the sense of lives tied to the earth and the turn of seasons, particularly through loving descriptions of her mother, Sido.<br />These two memoirs are not about &quot;not much&quot; as one reviewer puts it, they're about the sensuality of life, about enduring bonds of love and of blood, and about the education of a writer.  Perfectly gorgeous work, and highly recommended.	2001-11-19
US	53094487	R31M462VDTR5RD	1557883599	388736655	The Mediterranean Vegan Kitchen: Meat-Free, Egg-Free, Dairy-Free Dishes from the Healthiest Region Under the Sun	Books	4	159	174	N	Y	A wonderful resource	Okay, I admit it, I think a day without cheese is a waste of time.  That said, I have to confess I'm really impressed with this book and its wealth of vegan recipes which literally made my mouth water as I read through them.  The range of cuisines is quite good, and while there are a lot of ingredients and techniques in common, the variety here is quite wonderful.  The recipes are clear and concise, and nothing seems outrageously difficult or time-consuming.  These are recipes you'll use.  The only reason I didn't give this book five stars is because I really do like a few illustrations.  It's nice occasionally to know what a dish is supposed to look like.  Even if you're a meat-eater, give this one a shot; at the very least you'll find a raft of side dishes guaranteed to enhance any meal.	2001-11-02
US	53094487	R16JSABERJTXD2	0060194529	495171185	Carolyne Roehm's Winter Notebook	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Nice, but nothing to get hugely excited about.	Roehm makes pretty things and to do that she relies upon items such as hellebores (a winter-blooming flower) which are quite hard for the average person to find.  If her projects were less work or so dazzling that you didn't mind running all over East Overcoat to find the necessary components, then I'd be more enthusiastic about this book.  As it stands, it's kind of a pricey picture book.  I'd recommend Tracy Porter or Martha Stewart for a more hands-on experience.	2001-11-02
US	53094487	R2ZAD5C11V3BT2	1550224050	160598939	Secret Chicago: The Unique Guidebook to Chicago's Hidden Sites, Sounds, & Tastes (Secret Guides)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Good, but not as detailed as I'd like	This is a great idea, and I wish it had been expanded just a bit, to get more of a flavor of the places Weller writes about.  There are places in this book which, even as a Chicagoan born and bred, I never knew about.  He even has a short chapter about prostitution in the city!  You don't get much more secret than that, methinks.  But the information amounts to little more than a few lines about each site, and leaves you wanting a bit more.<br />I also have to wonder how some of the places in the book were chosen.  How secret is the Chicago El (elevated) system after all?  And why, for example, with literally thousands of little fast food joints in the city, were there only three listed?  And how were they chosen?  I recognize that there was a space limit on this book, and that Weller covers a great deal of ground here, but as I read I'm occasionally bemused by both inclusions and exclusions.  Still, it doesn't pretend to be comprehensive and Weller does do a good job of giving the reader an overview of some of the roads less traveled in a city this size<br />This is a fun book.  Keep one in your glove compartment for impromptu road trips, or give a copy to your Chicago-loving friends.  They'll get a kick out of finding new reasons to love this city.	2001-11-02
US	53094487	R1URCMHR2R35WZ	0764535781	605141584	50 Fast Digital Photo Techniques	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	Excellent digital cookbook	Photoshop is the holy grail of image processing programs, but it can also be fairly difficult to master.  This book doesn't necessarily demystify PShop, but it does provide some quick, easy-to-use techniques for making something more out of your digital images than just nice snapshots in a digital album.<br />Learn how to improve images that are iffy, embellish them with vignettes, color changes or filter effects (watercolor, ink sketch and others)or composite them for wholly new images.  None of these techniques are hard to follow, and all can be accomplished with a variety of image-editing programs, not just Photoshop.  It is, in fact, geared more towards the lower-end Photoshop Elements than the full program.  But the information is just as relevant, and though it often requires a bit of translation between program menus, this isn't a difficult thing to do.<br />Highly recommended for anyone who wants to get involved in digital image-editing, digital art or just a slightly more hands-on approach to improving the summer vacation snaps.	2001-09-24
US	53094487	R3B0IPDGH4NU8T	0440180538	828421095	Summer Book	Books	5	59	64	N	N	A perfect book	The connection between grandmother and granddaughter is a marrow-deep one in &quot;Summer Book.&quot;  Sophia and her grandmother spend their days exploring, talking about life, nature, everything but their feelings about Sophia's mother's death and their love for one another.  And yet, underneath the offhand, and often strange conversations that take place between them, you feel their affection and the concern they feel for one another.<br />&quot;Summer Book&quot; is a strange and beautiful story.  There's no false emotions here, no manipulation for the sake of effect.  Just an account of a very real relationship between a child and her grandmother, during the last weeks of the grandmother's life.  Very highly recommended.	2001-09-23
US	53094487	R2MGWOLH6ZHITN	0966474147	935828182	The Art of the Bonsai Potato Kit: Zen - Without the Wait!	Books	2	9	25	N	Y	Joke wears a little thin	Let's face it, this instant Zen thing is funny. But once you've shelled out the bucks for the kit, you may find yourself wondering why you bothered. You're never really going to understand Bonsai by sprouting a potato. You might learn something about Zen somewhere down the road, but I wouldn't count on it. If it was this simple, all elementary school teachers would be Bodhisattvas and their students, enlightened masters. No, this is pretty much a joke, and a good one, too, but in the end it's a lot of money to pay for something that's going to leave you with a rotting potato and a bunch of bored friends who have heard the joke a few dozen times. You could go to the supermarket and get a sweet potato and do the same thing for far less.	2001-08-25
US	53094487	R3K79R85WD9AJF	0425104370	125051663	Messages from Michael	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Still holds up	I read this book about twenty years ago, and at the time was a little concerned about the concept of revealed wisdom.  Sure, the information made sense to me, but the source seemed...odd.  Twenty years on I recognize one very important thing:  Truth is what it is.  Doesn't matter who tells you, if it's true, it's true.<br />So is this stuff true?  Well it's impossible to say with any certainty, so you have to judge it by two criteria:  First, how applicable is this information to life?  Second, how does it enrich your own life?<br />To the first question, I would answer that I find it validates itself over and over.  Often, when dealing with a difficult situation, I find myself analyzing the people involved in Michael terms, and I find that a lot of things fall into place.  Solutions to problems seem simpler once I've applied the Michael teachings.  To the second, I'd have to say that having come to terms with a universe which is governed by the laws of karma has made a great difference to my peace of mind.<br />So suspend your reservations, your prejudices and your skepticism about channeling, and read this book for the content.  Judge the content.  Apply that to your daily life, not the concept of chanelling, and see if it doesn't validate itself for you.	2001-08-22
US	53094487	R2BTZ48KP0S149	1580082653	692298930	Dinosaur Bar-B-Que: An American Roadhouse	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	If you ever wanted a recipe for Dr. Pepper cake...	This is your book.  &quot;Dinosaur Bar-B-Que&quot; is a wild, funny, exciting cookbook filled with a lot of good eating.  It's not a cookbook for the serious chef, but rather for those who appreciate high flavor, good times, great music and ambience and a general sense that food is an intrinsic part of a good life.<br />Many of the recipes are best made on a grill, but you can adapt them.  They won't be quite the same, but then flexibility is all.  The point is to eat well and have fun.  And you can do both with the help of this book.	2001-08-19
US	53094487	R202A0D8YR9MBW	0918393760	374332368	Bad Boys and Tough Tattoos: A Social History of the Tattoo With Gangs, Sailors, and Street-Corner Punks 1950-1965 (Haworth Series in Gay & Lesbian Studies)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Fascinating look at a sub-culture	Back when Sam Steward (aka, Phil Andros or Phil Sparrow, author of gay erotica) was tattoing  people in his parlor on south State Street in Chicago, the tattoo sub-culture was very different from what it is today.  Certainly the reasons for tattooing haven't changed substantially, but in the last decade or so it's become not only socially acceptable, but a kind of fashion statement for many people.<br />Not so in the fifties and early sixties when a tattoo was a sign that you belonged to a certain class.  Women didn't get tattooed at all (I met a girl on a train about a twenty years ago who confessed that her tattoo showing under the lace of her wedding dress made her feel like a tramp.) and the men who did were tough guys, or living within some sort of society where they were an accepted part of life.  Steward not only tattooed these men, he studied them, talked to them and learned the reasons why they'd chosen to decorate their bodies in certain ways.  He investigated the sexuality inherent in tattooing as well as the social issues.  He is not a disinterested observer, nor has he written an objective study.  But what he gives us is probably far more interesting in its intimacy.<br />While there is probably information applicable to the current tattoo culture in the US, this book really is dated.  It's fascinating for students of the time, and of the milieus he discusses, but won't be right for everyone.	2001-08-19
US	53094487	R3BBMABXHXZ35Q	0811821706	500175611	The Bad Girl's Guide to the Open Road	Books	5	5	11	N	Y	Road trips with a 'tude	Bad girls can be scary.  Bad girls do what they want when they want to do it.  Bad girls wear bright lipstick and put the top down because they dont' care if their hair gets mussed.<br />Bad girls are funny as hell.  If you've ever dreamed of dropping it all and hitting the road, you'll probably love this guide to being tough and bad and having a grand old time with kindred spirits.<br />Bad girls aren't really bad; they just have more fun than most people.	2001-08-19
US	53094487	R3JY3XSTKS592N	0375503986	19929419	This Is Not Your Mother's Menopause: One Woman's Natural Journey Through Change	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Raves!  Read this book.	Anyone facing menopause either directly or indirectly (you men out there could benefit from reading this book, too) should read Trisha Posner's account of her own battle with the changes being forced on her, and how she dealt with them.  From the most common - hotflashes - to the least - auditory hallucinations (one which I have experienced) - Posner lists the symptoms and side effects of menopause in a highly organized and informative way.<br />Posner's own interest in a less clinical approach to menopause arises out of her family's history of breast cancer.  She had a very real fear that hormone replacement might trigger cancer in her own body, and so she went out to research the alternatives.  She's a professional researcher, and has done the research for her husbands books on history and current events. She is meticulous in her work and it pays off for her readers here in the assurance that she has thoroughly investigated the available information on each aspect of menopause.<br />While she never prosletyzes for any regimen, she does outline her own program very throughly (exercise, nutritional supplements, particularly soy; dietary changes) explains the thinking behind each point, and gives the reader an honest assessment of her progress.  It is not her intention to persuade any of us that this is the right way, only to show that there are always alternatives to medical intervention for treatment of menopausal problems.<br />Her research is persuasive, her plan of action one that virtually anyone could follow.  That doesn't mean that everyone will be won over to her way of doing things, but that's okay, too.  The benefit of this book is in its wealth of information, not in any plan or magical formula.  I recommend it for anyone who wants to understand this life passage a little better, and recommend it highly for those who want to take more control over that passage.	2001-08-19
US	53094487	R1W8V8HSOO7OZ	0671027212	725696403	Frontiers	Books	2	13	20	N	Y	Well, it has a nice cover...	I admit it, I'm an easy sell when it comes to gay romance, particularly if there's a little hot sex thrown in.  So when I found &quot;Frontiers&quot; I was thrilled to see something new, something that wasn't contemporary, Science Fiction or Fantasy.  Alas, the book did not live up to my hopes.  It's NOT about the wild west, as one review on this site implies, it's about the colonial era.  No studly, stony-eyed cowboys, guns a-blazin'.  Still, the era is not without a good deal of interest, so that's not really a drawback.<br />The central character, John Chapman, has had the requisite Traumatic Childhood with the Abusive Macho Father, and as a result has a Bad Self-Image.  Yes, really, it's that obvious.  I felt as if I was being hit over the head with what a miserable life he's had.  John is not the brightest bulb in the lamp and he's a whiner, so that by page 100 I wanted to start abusing him, too.  On the run from a disastrous affair with a British officer, he travels on foot into the interior of an unsettled country with some vague notion of getting a piece of land and settling it.  Except he has no money, no possessions, no supplies and no clear idea of what it means to be a pioneer other than showing up in the right place at the right time to get some free land.  He encounters a mysterious, drunken, paranoid Irishman who is so weirdly written that it's impossible to get a fix on him.  (Possibly this is part of the Plot Twist, but it's about as subtle as a sledgehammer.)  John is terrified of him, but at the same time physically obsessed.  When they finally do have sex, it's so unengaging (and not terribly believable, in my opinion) that you have to wonder why they even bothered.<br />Animals play a great part in this book, and that's not really a surprise since they were heavily relied upon by settlers for work, food and income.  John is the odd man out here in that he has a distinctly modern attitude towards the subject.  It gives him pain to watch an animal suffer.  Okay, I can buy this since it is established upfront that he is not typical in this respect.  Over and over, this fact is drummed into the reader.  John is Sensitive.  This is, or should be a plus to any contemporary reader who probably shares his feelings to some degree.  Alas, his presence seems almost like the kiss of death to any animal within ten miles, and the carnage eventually becomes so gratuitous that it's likely to put off the very people who had been on John's side all along.  Add to that, the impression that it's a good thing that he's learning to be a hard man, a less sensitive one,(a &quot;real&quot; man like his father, like Daniel?) and we get a very mixed message about John and his sensibilities.<br />Jensen has clearly done a good deal of research into the period, which is admirable.  But when he peppers his narrative with contemporary phrases such as &quot;pissed off&quot; you have to wonder why he bothered.  It's that jarring.  Even if he didn't think about this aspect of his narrative, why didn't his editor catch it? His anachronisms make the narrative sloppy, and detract from the weight of the considerable effort he put into his research.<br />I don't know why it got such good editorial reviews.  Can the field of gay-positive literature still be so thin, that this counts as some sort of classic?  Personally, I don't think an author needs to rely on overkill when it comes to proving that being gay has always been harder than being straight in any given society.  You don't have to provide profound trauma and bizarre plot devices.  Life, particularly life on the frontier of an unsettled country, will bruise your characters quite enough as it is, and sort the weak from the strong pretty handily.  John Chapman, defined by both sexuality and misery (and a healthy tot of stupidity) is not my idea of any sort of gay icon.<br />I give points for the research and good intentions. And for that nice cover.  Other than that, not recommended.  Sorry.orry.	2001-08-16
US	53094487	R36IU3XNOVWTED	038072541X	148832051	Hit Man (Keller)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	What a find!	I'd never read any Lawrence Block before, and picked up &quot;Hit Man&quot; on a whim.  What I found was an author who could write circles around a lot of his peers.  This is a tight, deft narrative about a man we should despise.  Instead, we come to care about Keller, and understand something of what drives him, of what makes him human.  I really recommend this book highly, not just for entertainment value, but if you want to learn more about the craft of writing and how an effective narrative is constructed.	2001-08-16
US	53094487	R5AVQ9C3DIUJL	096580142X	774285969	Lightning in a Drought Year: A Novel of the Heartland	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Michelle Black is a treasure	On the great prairie lands of the United States, in the late 1880s, Laurel McBryde's life with her widowed father is exactly what she wishes it to be.  She reads, makes photographs and is treated as an equal by her father.  But when he dies on her twenty-first birthday, leaving her in the hands of her mother's family, Laurel's life changes radically.  She is expected to marry, and to that end the Hartmoors press her to give up her most unfeminine behavior, her radical ideas and her belief that she is the equal to any man.  Only one man in Chisholm appreciates Laurel for what she is, and he is not only married and of a different class, but there is a shadow over his past that threatens even their friendship.<br /> Boy, can Michelle Black write!  Her \\"Lightning in a Drought Year\\" is a tremendously moving, compelling novel about life in gilded-age Kansas.  The plot is simple; it's a coming-of-age story involving the best sort of romantic heroine, a woman who has learned to think for herself, and it requires her to butt heads with those who uphold the status quo.  But while her presence changes them, as it will in all good novels of the type, they change her as well, and this is tremendously refreshing because it acknowledges that any person at any age, no matter how enlightened they may seem, can have room for change and growth in their lives.  Watching Laurel come to care for a family which at first seems horrid and stifling is one of the joys of this book.  The story is told with a less-is-more restraint that compels readers to do a lot of the work for themselves, to bring their own feelings and experiences to the act of reading, which I find the most satisfying sort of storytelling.<br />One of Black's major strengths is characterization.  She doesn't show her hand too quickly, but is careful to remain in Laurel's point of view, allowing the reader to see and understand only what Laurel does.  Moments of extreme discomfort are broken by touches of unexpected kindness and humor, which are in turn squashed by rigid attitudes and expectations.  It's an effort to get to know the Hartmoors, but the effort pays off.  By the end I might not have agreed with any of their attitudes, but I felt a true affection for them.  They are sublimely human and prone to all the human weaknesses as well as strengths.  They do things for selfish reasons, but when a situation calls for selflessness and honesty, they come through, sometimes grudgingly, sometimes with infectious good humor.  By comparison, Carey Fairchild, Laurel's lover, is not quite as well drawn as the others, but that's not necessarily a drawback.  He's a nice change from the overwhelmingly masculine, square-jawed, often obtuse but always in control romantic hero who has become an awful clich&eacute; in romantic fiction.  Carey is fallible, weak and strong by turns, loving, selfish, thoughtful and thoughtless, and if we don't see as far into him as we do the Hartmoor family members it is perhaps because Black is so consistent in her point of view that we perceive him through Laurel-tinted glasses which see the faults, but make them look smaller.  As for Laurel, she's refreshingly girl-next-door.  I was with her the whole way; never once did Black lose me with inappropriately gushy descriptions of her beauty, her brilliance or her spunk.<br />Michelle Black is a treasure; she has a strong, sensible narrative voice, an eye for believable characterization and the ability to make the most out of a simple plot.  On the strength of this book, I've ordered the e-book version of her previous title \\"Never Come Down.\\"ness and humor, which are in turn squashed by rigid attitudes and expectations.  It's an effort to get to know the Hartmoors, but the effort pays off.  By the end I might not have agreed with any of their attitudes, but I felt a true affection for them.  They are sublimely human and prone to all the human weaknesses as well as strengths.  They do things for selfish reasons, but when a situation calls for selflessness and honesty, they come through, sometimes grudgingly, sometimes with infectious good humor.  By comparison, Carey Fairchild, Laurel's lover, is not quite as well drawn as the others, but that's not necessarily a drawback.  He's a nice change from the overwhelmingly masculine, square-jawed, often obtuse but always in control romantic hero who has become an awful clich in romantic fiction.  Carey is fallible, weak and strong by turns, loving, selfish, thoughtful and thoughtless, and if we don't see as far into him as we do the Hartmoor family members it is perhaps because Black is so consistent in her point of view that we perceive him through Laurel-tinted glasses which see the faults, but make them look smaller.  As for Laurel, she's refreshingly girl-next-door.  I was with her the whole way; never once did Black lose me with inappropriately gushy descriptions of her beauty, her brilliance or her spunk.<br />Michelle Black is a treasure; she has a strong, sensible narrative voice, an eye for believable characterization and the ability to make the most out of a simple plot.  On the strength of this book, I've ordered the e-book version of her previous title \\"Never Come Down.\\"	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R1L7F4SODQY2GP	0553572318	653296029	The Seventh Moon	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Well written and engrossing	Not entirely a romance, not wholly a thriller or a mystery, THE SEVENTH MOON is a gripping mixture of all three that takes us from Singapore on the eve of the Japanese invasion to New York, Hong Kong and Laos in the early 70s in a tale about a woman's attempts to deal with the fate of her only child.<br />Early in World War II, as the Japanese overrun Malaysia, Francine Lawrence flees Singapore with her lover and her young daughter, Ruth.  But Ruth is too sick to finish the dangerous journey, and Francine is forced to leave her with strangers for her own sake.  After the war, Francine returns to find the child, but Ruth has vanished and the tribe she was with has been slaughtered by the Japanese.  Thirty years later, the appearance of a young woman who may or may not be Ruth reopens all the old wounds.  Sakura Ueda has secrets so dark and horrifying Francine can barely imagine them, and every reason to lie about who she is.  Yet in the wasteland that has become Francine's heart, something is touched by the presence of Sakura, and Francine finds herself compelled to make one last, fearful journey in the hope of finding the truth and reclaiming her family.<br />THE SEVENTH MOON is a wonderfully well-crafted book, the sort that makes the actual physical act of reading a pleasure.  It caught me almost from the first, and carried me straight through 300-odd pages without a hitch or a slow-down anywhere.  The theme is universal: the love of a mother for her child, played out not once but twice, and framed by a pair of love affairs born out of need, and a hunger for some human warmth in a cold world.  Gabriel, skillfully balancing these parallel histories, keeps his narrative tight, tense and involving straight through to the end.  I never quite knew where he was going to go with this story, a quality which always makes me want to shout \\"halleluiah!\\" since so many genres have become numbingly predictable.  If occasionally  I found certain characters a little over-done, or perhaps a bit redundant in some situations, the problems were minor by comparison to the richness these characters brought to the narrative as a whole.  Compelling in their weakness as well as their strength, they are entirely human and it's easy to identify with them.  Their histories inform their characters, and exotic as they are, those histories feel genuine.  There are few false steps here, and the ones I found seem unimportant by comparison to the vividness of the narrative.<br />Gabriel has the gift of telling a story of love and loss without resorting to pathos, the ability to describe terror without resorting to gore, and the knack for eroticism without vulgarity.  THE SEVENTH MOON is a hard-to-put-down novel  I would recommend to almost anyone who is looking for something more than just a little mind-candy.perhaps a bit redundant in some situations, the problems were minor by comparison to the richness these characters brought to the narrative as a whole.  Compelling in their weakness as well as their strength, they are entirely human and it's easy to identify with them.  Their histories inform their characters, and exotic as they are, those histories feel genuine.   There are few false steps here, and the ones I found seem unimportant by comparison to the vividness of the narrative.<br />Gabriel has the gift of telling a story of love and loss without resorting to pathos, the ability to describe terror without resorting to gore, and the knack for eroticism without vulgarity.   THE SEVENTH MOON is a hard-to-put-down novel  I would recommend to almost anyone who is looking for something more than just a little mind-candy.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R1S49G9GBTCUFT	0553578421	960341723	Magic Spells	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very real and very beautiful	In a small town in Vermont, Graham Payton loves Jane Gregory, but Jane loves Ned, Graham's brother.  And when it all goes terribly wrong, Jane flees Pendleton.  Seven years later she is back with her son, Alex, who has never spoken a word in his life, and a heart filled with guilt.  Is she strong enough to rescue her son from silence, to love again, and to believe, at last, in her own wild magic?<br />It's often easier to write a bad review than a good one, easier to explain why something went wrong than to tell a reader why a book made you laugh or cry or touched some resonant chord, why the writing took you into the perfect realm of imagination that all readers long for, but so seldom are able to find.  \\"Magic Spells\\" struck me almost immediately as a book I wanted to recommend very vigorously.  The more I read of it, the more caught up I became in the warmth of Yorke's affection for her characters and the beauty of her prose.  But by the end I found myself disturbed by the resolution to the point where I had to rethink my enthusiasm for the story.  The happiness of the protagonists depended, in the end, on the unhappiness of another decent, loving character.<br />As a result I found myself spending some considerable time weighing each aspect of the book more carefully than ever.  The plot is simple enough, even complicated by magic which plays a subordinate role here:  Woman overcomes the fears and failings of youth to find love with the right man.  How often have we encountered that plot?  And yet Yorke never allows her story to become old or stale.  Rather, Jane's tale seems both painfully new and completely timeless; love is an old, old battle that each of us have to fight anew.  Characterization is equally deft, reminiscent of  Stephen King at his best,  presenting us with a cast of players all of whom we recognize and yet each of whom is as individual as a snowflake.  In a few paragraphs, Yorke makes us care about the joys and sorrows of her characters' lives, about why they love who they love, about why one man is drinking himself to death and another woman wears too much makeup.  Even the most insignificant player becomes significant, a real person with a real life.  This is, perhaps, one of the greatest gifts an author can have.<br />It's impossible not to respond to Yorke's prose; there's a simple, honest beauty to it that elevates even the saddest, most mundane life to a sort of nobility.  Gestures are not only significant, they touch the heart.  The moment when Alex's great grandmother reaches out to wipe frozen tears off his face, and they shatter like glass in her hand will stay with me forever.  Yorke understands the value of the small thing, the details of life.  And in the end, what weighed most heavily in favor of the book really was the very thing that disturbed me:  The story is real.  Not magic as some external power since in the end it's really just a symbol of the power of love, but the story about Jane and Ned and Graham and the others, about their love and their hate and their weakness and strength.  Yes, people do love inappropriately.  They do fall in love with one person and marry another, they do leave wives and husbands to take a chance on finding someone or something that completes their soul.  Because of that and because the book is so beautifully, simply and powerfully written, I recommend it highly.<br />\\"Magic Spells\\" is one of the most extraordinary books I've read in months, and if you want to be reminded of how grand it is to be alive and how hard it is to be human, if you want to remember the joy and pain of real love, I suggest you rush right out and get this book.ives, about why they love who they love, about why one man is drinking himself to death and another woman wears too much makeup.  Even the most insignificant player becomes significant, a real person with a real life.  This is, perhaps, one of the greatest gifts an author can have.<br />It's impossible not to respond to Yorke's prose; there's a simple, honest beauty to it that elevates even the saddest, most mundane life to a sort of nobility.  Gestures are not only significant, they touch the heart.  The moment when Alex's great grandmother reaches out to wipe frozen tears off his face, and they shatter like glass in her hand will stay with me forever.  Yorke understands the value of the small thing, the details of life.  And in the end, what weighed most heavily in favor of the book really was the very thing that disturbed me:  The story is real.  Not magic as some external power since in the end it's really just a symbol of the power of love, but the story about Jane and Ned and Graham and the others, about their love and their hate and their weakness and strength.  Yes, people do love inappropriately.  They do fall in love with one person and marry another, they do leave wives and husbands to take a chance on finding someone or something that completes their soul.  Because of that and because the book is so beautifully, simply and powerfully written, I recommend it highly.<br />\\"Magic Spells\\" is one of the most extraordinary books I've read in months, and if you want to be reminded of how grand it is to be alive and how hard it is to be human, if you want to remember the joy and pain of real love, I suggest you rush right out and get this book.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R1ONI7LDHNZHEE	0505523116	429550659	The Bewitched Viking (Wink & A Kiss, 1)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	When you just want to feel good	Poor Tykir Thorksson.  His king has sent him off to capture the witch that put a spell on the king's manhood.  He was prepared for danger, but he wasn't prepared for the hot-tempered red-head,  her tiresome, bumbling brothers and her sheep!  And to make matters worse, he's burdened with a crew of superstitious Vikings and a skald who composes some of the worst sagas ever sung.  It's hard to know which is worse, being immortalized in sagas with titles like  &quot;Tykir the Great and the Flame-Haired Witch,&quot; or finding that he isn't  immune to the witch's flaming hair and freckles after all.<br />Much as I love a good laugh, I'm always a little skeptical of novel-length humor because it's just so hard to do.  To keep your reader smiling for 300-400 pages, much less laughing is one of the most difficult tasks a writer can undertake.  Or as someone once said:  &quot;Dying is easy; comedy is hard.&quot;  Sandra Hill provides enough good humor to keep her readers feeling good for almost four hundred pages and for that alone I have to give her high marks.<br />Sandra Hill knows her stuff.  She knows how to keep a narrative moving, how to create believable characters, and how to make her readers smile, if not laugh out loud.  Though I found myself a little uncomfortable with the opening chapter in which she seemed to be trying a little too hard to win her readers over, I did find that once the narrative settled down, it was a pleasure to read.  The writing is crisp, humorous and well-balanced and the problematic elements such verbal anachronisms (The anal retentive need not apply; this book will make you nuts if you pick at it.) and a tendency to make the dark ages seem like a time when it wasn't any big deal to hop on a ship to go visit cousin Sven who has settled in Sussex with his Saxon wife and their sixteen children really don't detract from the story, in my opinion.  The thing with humor, at least for me, is that all can be forgiven if the author can make me laugh.<br />There isn't much about this plot that we haven't seen a million times.  There's a dark age version of the &quot;meet cute&quot; that involves sheep, but you pretty much know that the two main characters have to start out hating each other so that they can have the Big Revelation later on.  Hill handles it deftly enough, never descending into bathos which would have been too easy given the backgrounds she's created for Tykir and Alinor.  They never pity themselves and we're never asked to pity them either.  And Hill never relies on the &quot;idiot plot&quot; in which two grown people can't seem to share enough information to avoid huge, painful misunderstandings that threaten to destroy their relationship at least a dozen times during the course of the story.  Yes, it's hard for these two to show their feelings for each other, but Hill never takes this to the extremes that make this reviewer want to fling a book across the room.<br />It's actually pretty hard to feel sorry for Tykir when you consider that the man has rank, money and women falling at his feet.  So when he butts heads with Lady Alinor, who keeps insisting that she's not a witch (the difference between cursing someone and putting a curse on him seems to escape the Vikings who have come to haul her off to Norway to fix the king's...problem.) it is rather amusing to watch his sense of self get rearranged.  It's also hard to feel sorry for Alinor for all that she's been married three times to rich, repulsive old men for the benefit of her horrible brothers.  She's tough, she's mouthy, and she is not perfect - alleluia!  She makes mistakes, has bad days, feels sorry for herself occasionally, and despite all her best intentions, she finds herself responding in a very basic way to Tykir's very basic attractions.  From the beginning you really have to like these two because you know that for all that they're going to irritate each other half to death, they're also really well-suited to each other.  Both are smart and funny, and both are almost obsessively self-reliant.<br />There's not a lot of tension inherent in this particular treatment, and that's not a bad thing for humor which can be so easily damaged by too much seriousness.  We're led to feel a certain amount of concern for Alinor's fate and for the fate of their relationship, but never enough to put a frown on our faces instead of a smile.  The love scene - there's one rather long one - is charming, and just explicit enough to let us know what's happening without being graphic.  And with the lead-in Hill gives us, the length of the scene isn't a problem; it fits nicely into the narrative without being in any way intrusive.  I, for one, enjoyed the heck out of it!<br />Hill's characters are vivid and honest; they have weaknesses, they do silly things.  Sometimes they laugh at themselves, but more often they laugh at each other. They don't change dramatically; they don't have epiphanies which turn them from sinners to saints.  They simply are what they are and it's a mark of Hill's humanity as well as her skill that we do care about what happens to them. They work within the context of the story, and even the secondary characters are not only memorable but quite real.<br />On the whole I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys humor.  This isn't a book you read when you need a good weep, but rather when you want to feel good, when you want to believe that the world is actually a fairly amusing place, and that nice things can happen if you're open to them.h are smart and funny, and both are almost obsessively self-reliant.<br />There's not a lot of tension inherent in this particular treatment, and that's not a bad thing for humor which can be so easily damaged by too much seriousness.  We're led to feel a certain amount of concern for Alinor's fate and for the fate of their relationship, but never enough to put a frown on our faces instead of a smile.  The love scene - there's one rather long one - is charming, and just explicit enough to let us know what's happening without being graphic.  And with the lead-in Hill gives us, the length of the scene isn't a problem; it fits nicely into the narrative without being in any way intrusive.  I, for one, enjoyed the heck out of it!<br />Hill's characters are vivid and honest; they have weaknesses, they do silly things.  Sometimes they laugh at themselves, but more often they laugh at each other. They don't change dramatically; they don't have epiphanies which turn them from sinners to saints.  They simply are what they are and it's a mark of Hill's humanity as well as her skill that we do care about what happens to them. They work within the context of the story, and even the secondary characters are not only memorable but quite real.<br />On the whole I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys humor.  This isn't a book you read when you need a good weep, but rather when you want to feel good, when you want to believe that the world is actually a fairly amusing place, and that nice things can happen if you're open to them.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R204WR87QTV1VW	1929034113	59648250	Dark Salvation	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Competent but nothing extraordinary	Sometimes a writer can be perfectly competent - everything is spelled correctly, sentences are well-crafted , characters behave consistently, and the plot is direct and potentially engaging - and yet the story doesn't come together in any meaningful way, doesn't capture the imagination.  \\"Dark Salvation\\" is such a book.<br />Journalist Rebecca Morgan is determined to get the scoop on Desmond Lacroix and his research into blood-borne contagions which she suspects to be nothing more than a con game.  But Lacroix has more invested in his research facility than she can imagine, and as she begins to uncover the truth, she is drawn deeper and deeper into his world.  Despite some problems which are probably more matters of personal taste than otherwise (I found just a little more cribbing from other sources than I like, though I recognize it as an occupational hazard for genre writers.) Dunne has constructed a workable universe, and a relatively new take on vampirism - sub-genre: Physiological reasons for their existence.  She writes with assurance and the competence mentioned earlier, but without some essential spark which would have kept me wondering what was going to happen next.  The writing is good, neither particularly crisp nor particularly sluggish, but eminently readable and fairly undemanding.  If there are any glaringly awkward bits, it's probably that she tends to over-use colorful descriptions, such as referring to Desmond's voice as \\"caramel.\\"  The plot itself isn't too strenuous; we're told almost from the beginning what Desmond's game is and the rest of the book pretty much works through his concerns with Rebecca's help.  There's a good deal of sex here, as well, and those who don't care for the graphic stuff might be put off, though I found it a nice change from the implied sex of so much vampire lore.  But again, there's nothing dazzling about it, nothing visceral, and that's a shame.  The characters are pretty much what you'd expect; dark, brooding hero with a secret, spunky, beautiful heroine who is his soul mate, who understands and accepts even in the face of what is commonly thought of as horror.  Competent but no sparkle.<br />I wish I could have liked this book more, I wish I could find something more to say than \\"competent\\" because I sound as if I'm damning with faint praise which really isn't the case at all.  Even blunt criticism would probably be better than relative indifference, but I have no major quarrels with what Dunne writes or how she writes it.  If she could put some muscle in her prose or make her story quirkier I believe she could produce a book that would capture the imagination.  \\"Dark Salvation\\" is not that book, alas.  I would recommend it if you're a die-hard vampire romance fan or a voracious reader of romances looking for something just a little different, but if you want to be dazzled, I don't think this one is for you.with a secret, spunky, beautiful heroine who is his soul mate, who understands and accepts even in the face of what is commonly thought of as horror.  Competent but no sparkle.<br />I wish I could have liked this book more, I wish I could find something more to say than \\"competent\\" because I sound as if I'm damning with faint praise which really isn't the case at all.  Even blunt criticism would probably be better than relative indifference, but I have no major quarrels with what Dunne writes or how she writes it.  If she could put some muscle in her prose or make her story quirkier I believe she could produce a book that would capture the imagination.  \\"Dark Salvation\\" is not that book, alas.  I would recommend it if you're a die-hard vampire romance fan or a voracious reader of romances looking for something just a little different, but if you want to be dazzled, I don't think this one is for you.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R2IG8AWFPA2V12	0446606332	106696252	The Book of Night with Moon	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Rattling good fantasy	When an ancient evil invades our world, flooding it with surreal horror, it falls to four small wizards - feline champions - to fight this evil with every bit of magic at their disposal.  Together they must cross the River of Fire and hunt the Children of the Serpent, spending many of their nine lives in a battle between the light of their world (and ours) and the darkness from another dimension.<br /> In \\"The Book of Night with Moon\\" Duane covers a lot of ground; her central characters are all cats, and this in itself is difficult enough, given that very few authors have done this genre as well as Richard Adams did with \\"Watership Down.\\"  She gives us a quest, which is a very potent plot in western literature, and she gives us a rattling good urban fantasy a la Charles de Lint.<br /> The plot is simple enough, and one that's done in a great many fantasy novels:  Seemingly unstoppable evil must be faced and defeated by the hero(es) who are really just regular people (or cats) at bottom.  Tolkien almost defined the genre with his \\"Lord of the Rings\\" trilogy, and since then, every fantasy author worth her/his salt has tried to ring an interesting change on the formula.  And in fact, when it fails, this plot is just that, formulaic.  But in Duane's hands this plot becomes quirky as a cat, \\"full of sass and vinegar\\" to quote Jane Yolen (from the back cover.)  Feline character informs the plot, moves it and shapes it, and this is what makes the book so special.<br /> Duane's central character, Rhiow is well drawn, and - dare I say it? - very human as well as being very feline.  All of her characters, human as well as cat, are well drawn, which is one of the great pleasures of this book.<br /> But it's Duane's craft which really makes this novel more interesting than a lot of others of its type.  Too many authors could make the trappings of such a novel seem leaden, bogging the reader down in the created world.  Duane, though she does create a feline vocabulary as well as other details of feline life, never allows these details to stop the smooth flow of her story.  She remains comprehensible even while she is teaching you the cat word for such things as \\"human\\" or \\"person.\\"  (Ehhif, as in `my ehhif, my person.')  Some writers might succumb to the temptation of making such a created world a little too precious or a little too facetious, but while her sense of humor is firmly in place, Duane never treats her creation with anything less than respect,  knowing just how far to go with her details, never too far into territory that's over-cute or firmly in the nudge-nudge category.  In short, she never throws you out of her story for the sake of a cool-sounding bit of detail.  She never  winks at her readers as if to say, \\"Look how clever I can be.\\"  She respects her work, her characters, and, I'm pleased to say, she respects her readers.<br /> If you're a cat lover as I am, this book will be a delight.  If you're not, it's still a darn good read and I recommend it highly.  One caveat:  I wouldn't recommend you trying to speak Ailurin to your cats; you'll get it wrong and they'll laugh at you behind your back.other details of feline life, never allows these details to stop the smooth flow of her story.  She remains comprehensible even while she is teaching you the cat word for such things as \\"human\\" or \\"person.\\"  (Ehhif, as in `my ehhif, my person.')  Some writers might succumb to the temptation of making such a created world a little too precious or a little too facetious, but while her sense of humor is firmly in place, Duane never treats her creation with anything less than respect,  knowing just how far to go with her details, never too far into territory that's over-cute or firmly in the nudge-nudge category.  In short, she never throws you out of her story for the sake of a cool-sounding bit of detail.  She never  winks at her readers as if to say, \\"Look how clever I can be.\\"  She respects her work, her characters, and, I'm pleased to say, she respects her readers.<br /> If you're a cat lover as I am, this book will be a delight.  If you're not, it's still a darn good read and I recommend it highly.  One caveat:  I wouldn't recommend you trying to speak Ailurin to your cats; you'll get it wrong and they'll laugh at you behind your back.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R1IG31Z01WS102	0843945745	441217989	The Tides	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Humane and well written	A series of sinister accidents occurs at The Tides, a nursing home where Rebecca Emig is both administrator and the daughter of one of the patients.  Are the visions of Rebecca's father, Marshall, real or senile delusions?  Are they linked to these accidents?  And how will they change Rebecca's life and that of every resident of the home?  Melanie Tem has been around for a long time.  She's the winner of the Bram Stoker Award, wife to Steve Rasnick Tem, himself a very well-respected writer of Science Fiction and Fantasy, and she knows her craft.  She writes a good, tight narrative in which nothing is wasted and every detail tells a larger story.  And those details are blunt; this story, while not gory, is not for readers with delicate sensibilities.  The subject matter - residents of a nursing home, mostly elderly, many suffering senile dementia - is something I find hard to deal with for personal reasons, but if that were not the case, I suspect I would still find it all very disturbing.  Tem has done her time in social work, and the details here ring true.  She is writing what she knows, and this gives the book a firm underpinning of truth.  Perhaps that's the most disturbing element of all.  If this were simply a wild and wooly horror novel, it would be easy to forget.<br />As it is, this book will stay with you long after the storyline has ceased to creep you out.  There is an almost unpleasant vividness to the characters which makes each twist all the more horrifying.  This isn't about Freddie or Jason or any boogeyman, this is about what happens inside our heads when reality slips.  And it's about the things that are, perhaps, just waiting on the sidelines for that moment.  It's a well-balanced story about a man who has never forgotten or ceased to love his first wife, a selfish woman who married, had a child and then deserted her family.  Even if the horror were only in Marshall Emig's mind, there is a terrible inevitability to the truths that are coming to the surface now that his defenses are being destroyed by age.  Rebecca does not know that Billie, her father's second wife, is not her biological mother.  She doesn't know that Marshall was ever married to a woman named Faye, and she certainly doesn't know the story behind that marriage.  This would be horror enough for some people, and when Tem offers this plot as a layer in the larger story, the effect is both sad and shocking.<br />As with most horror novels, telling too much spoils the suspense, so let me just say that if you like good, tight horror, rising tension and some good, old-fashioned creepiness in what is to my way of thinking one of the most humane narratives I've ever encountered in this genre, then \\"The Tides\\" is a book you will want to read.the surface now that his defenses are being destroyed by age.  Rebecca does not know that Billie, her father's second wife, is not her biological mother.  She doesn't know that Marshall was ever married to a woman named Faye, and she certainly doesn't know the story behind that marriage.  This would be horror enough for some people, and when Tem offers this plot as a layer in the larger story, the effect is both sad and shocking.<br />As with most horror novels, telling too much spoils the suspense, so let me just say that if you like good, tight horror, rising tension and some good, old-fashioned creepiness in what is to my way of thinking one of the most humane narratives I've ever encountered in this genre, then \\"The Tides\\" is a book you will want to read.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R1KSU61JBJWTDQ	0843946156	790983799	Regeneration	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Well written, ungimmicky horror	A contemporary horror novel set in Chicago and Los Angeles.  Like so many other aging baby-boomers, Joyce Lackey hadn't given much thought to her future; it looked rosy and that was enough.  So when she's forced into an early retirement and her life goes to pieces, the future begins to look grim...until  the X-Gen Agency calls her with an offer that seems too good to be true.  Not only do they offer her a new life, they offer her the one thing she thought she couldn't ever have again:  her youth.<br />Most horror relies upon some external agent - ghosts, vampires, psychotic killers - but Regeneration takes a different approach.  While the X-Gen Agency and its plans are pretty scary, the true horror of the novel lies in the choices Joyce makes about the way she is going to live her life.  To be fair, which of us wouldn't think longingly of renewed youth if it was offered to us?  And which of us, in Joyce's position, wouldn't jump at the chance to make a new start at life, particularly when the only other option seems to be suicide?  It's not easy to fault Joyce for choosing the paths she takes, and not easy to divorce ourselves from her wholly, even at the end of the novel when most intelligent readers will be shrieking at her to stop and think before she destroys the rest of her life.  She's a strong woman with fatal weaknesses, a smart woman who can be willfully foolish and, in the end, a woman who finds it easier to become someone new than to give up all the material considerations she's held so dear:  her youth, her job, her image and her lifestyle.<br />Regeneration is compellingly crafted and highly readable, but if you're not prepared for a story about a group of people who aren't particularly admirable, then don't even bother.  There's no happily-ever-after to the romance and, by the end, there's not even a glimmer of hope for Joyce's future.  This isn't an uplifting book by any stretch.  However if you like well-written horror, and you can find it in something other than raging blood beasts, then Regeneration may well be exactly what you need.  Well worth the time.hing other than raging blood beasts, then Regeneration may well be exactly what you need.  Well worth the time.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R3DZUV5GCTISUM	0553581511	663245621	The Veiled Web	Books	3	3	4	N	N	More for romance readers than science fiction fans	Fearing that she was becoming too immersed in her dancing, Lucia del Mar's parents introduced her to computers and, by extension, to the world of the Internet.  Now the net has become a necessary outlet in her regimented life, and she follows its developments closely.  When she meets a handsome Moroccan businessman at a White House reception, and realizes that he is the creator of a remarkable new technology, she is intrigued and attracted, but nothing prepares her for the storm of intrigue that rips her away from her world and throws her into his, bringing her virtually face-to-face with a technological advance so important that there are people willing to kill for it.<br />Cyberspace, virtual reality and artificial intelligence are all hot items in the Science Fiction community right now.  As the world moves deeper and deeper into the information age, the questions posed by Asaro and other authors become more pertinent:  What are the limits of cyberspace?  What is reality?  Can a machine be self-aware?  And how does humanity fit into this brave new world?  Neal Stephenson and William Gibson are exploring this territory with a good deal of vigor and inventiveness, in dense, quirky narratives which push the limits of reader as well as writer.  In that company, Asaro is something of a lightweight.  Even Zaki, the computer which, or perhaps more properly, who seems even more self-aware in many ways than his creator, pales by comparison to Mike from Robert Heinlein's great 1966 novel The Moon is a Harsh Mistress.  Ultimately Veiled Web is an uneven mix of science fiction and romance.  Asaro has all the credentials, and her previous titles have been well-received in the SF community so I can only assume that the problem lies with the subject matter, that the sub-genre that's come to be known as \\"Cyber Punk\\" is simply not one which mixes well with other genres.<br />Because Asaro is a good, competent writer, this is especially unfortunate.  She knows how to tell a story, but it seems that her story works against her here.  Her hero is ostensibly Rashid al-Jazari, but in fact, the real hero of the book appears to be the computer, Zaki, who is far more interesting, likeable and appealingly vulnerable than his maker.  Because of that, and because of the romance between Rashid and Lucia, Zaki's fate is pretty much a given, and both storylines are shortchanged.  I don't honestly know if anyone is capable of doing a much better job balancing such disparate elements, and I give Asaro points for trying.  She has a real feel for the culture of the Internet and writes with authority about computers and dance.  The only weakness I can find here is that her characterization is not as deft as it could be, and that does contribute to the unevenness of the narrative.<br />If you're a fan of Cyber Punk, don't bother with this one, but if you're looking for a romance with some good, solid science fiction elements, then give this a try., but it seems that her story works against her here.  Her hero is ostensibly Rashid al-Jazari, but in fact, the real hero of the book appears to be the computer, Zaki, who is far more interesting, likeable and appealingly vulnerable than his maker.  Because of that, and because of the romance between Rashid and Lucia, Zaki's fate is pretty much a given, and both storylines are shortchanged.  I don't honestly know if anyone is capable of doing a much better job balancing such disparate elements, and I give Asaro points for trying.  She has a real feel for the culture of the Internet and writes with authority about computers and dance.  The only weakness I can find here is that her characterization is not as deft as it could be, and that does contribute to the unevenness of the narrative.<br />If you're a fan of Cyber Punk, don't bother with this one, but if you're looking for a romance with some good, solid science fiction elements, then give this a try.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R49UUJV3TSY74	1582001162	784552608	Moon of the Jaguar [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Doesn't dazzle, but not a bad read	Moon of the Jaguar is a contemporary paranormal romance set the Yucatan jungle where a quartet of university professors have gathered at the ruins of an ancient Maya temple.  While there they become involved with a drug lord and the ghosts of Mayan lovers, Jaguar Lord and White Fire Woman.<br />Though competent and quite readable, Alice Gaines' prose lacks either fire or sparkle, at least one of which would seem to be a pre-requisite for an engaging romance, certainly for a suspense novel.  Alas, almost from the beginning she defuses the relationship between Lydia and Alex by making it too easy.  They meet at a faculty party and before the end of the first chapter they have shared a serious lip lock.  Granted, lust at first sight is not only possible but in the case of two attractive people over the age of consent, it's likely.  However within the confines of a romance novel it makes moot the all-important question of whether the couple is going to get together at all much less for good, and it defuses a lot of the tension that can build to a delicious climax with that first kiss.  By chapter four the two have consummated their passion and there is a fair amount of sexuality for the rest of the book.  Readers who do not care for \\"on-screen\\" sex would do well to skip this one.<br />So with the relationship a fait accompli, where is there to go?  Well, there's the suspense angle which isn't badly done, and the paranormal aspect which though modest, in my opinion, worked nicely.  The ghosts of Jaguar Lord and White Fire Woman - alter-ego/past incarnations of Alex and Lydia respectively - work pretty well, and it's clear that here, as with the setting, Gaines did some homework.  Names, physical details flow easily and ring true without being intrusive.  The secondary characters are reasonably interesting and help fuel the plotlines.<br />Moon of the Jaguar isn't going to dazzle you, but for the price, it could prove to be a nice way to spend an afternoon.  Give it a shot.shot.	2001-07-08
US	53094487	R1RJAIRKZPWR1Z	1885948174	169040293	Hot! International (English and Multilingual Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Don't leave home without it.	From &quot;Hello, how are you? You're very attractive.&quot; to &quot;Why don't you move in here?  I have lots of room.&quot; (or &quot;Don't call me, I never want to see you again.&quot;) negotiating a relationship in a foreign language can be tricky.  Hot! International is a big help.  It covers the your-place-or-mine basics, health concerns such as VD and pregnancy and the big questions of who is going to do what to whom and saying thank you for it afterwards.  If your idea of a great trip is to add a foreign lover to your life list, then this book can be a big help.<br />Phrases are given in English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Portugese and Czech.  This deserves a place beside your standard phrase books.	2001-06-11
US	53094487	R3M3DRN293JRTV	0028634691	638930194	Betty Crocker's Slow Cooker Cookbook (Betty Crocker Cooking)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	You can't go wrong with Betty	For good, basic information about any cooking technique or food group, Betty Crocker is one of the best resources.  You can count on clear, concise directions, excellent photos of the finished dish, and a wide range of dishes.  This book is no exception.  Whether you're new to slow cookers or an old hand, there will be something here that will make you want to fire up the crock pot and get cooking.	2001-05-30
US	53094487	R376B4TGXTCU0J	0875884717	905701351	Fashion Doll Makeovers Learn from 35 Artists Step-by-Step Guide	Books	4	39	39	N	Y	A great starter book for fashion doll customizers	I wasn't sure what to think of this book; I'd seen good reviews and bad ones.  Ultimately this purchase was a leap of faith, and I'm glad I jumped.  While this is not primarily a how-to volume, there is a good, basic starter section in the back which shows how to re-root and style hair, do basic face paints, construct accessories such as hats, purses and jewelry.<br />If you're looking for a project-based book, this sure isn't it, and you'll be bitterly disappointed by the fact that the bulk of the book is made up of photos of and information about the work of other doll customizers.  However, if you're looking for inspiration along with enough information to get started on your own, then this is absolutely the book for you. It's a book to set you dreaming about what that $2.99 sale Barbie could look like with a little (or a lot) of work.  It's a book that can provoke you to have fun as well as take on a lot of hard work.<br />Most of all, it's not going to lead you through cookie-cutter projects.  If you want a doll that looks just like dozens of other dolls, stick with what's in the box.  But if you want to think, to create something truly one-of-a-kind, then give this book a shot.	2001-01-25
US	53094487	R2OJMVN1827U83	0811809692	534466542	Paris Out of Hand: A Wayward Guide	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Dreams Guaranteed, Nightmares Extinguished	There's a reason why this little book is subtitled &quot;a wayward guide.&quot;  The inverted Eiffel Tower on the cover should be a warning to those of faint imagination, that this book is not your father's Fodor Guide.  Rather, Paris Out of Hand, is a handy guide to the hotels with fold-down balconies, volume controls on the phones for those who don't speak French, and turn-down services which leave a fish on your pillow.  It is full of helpful French phrases, so you will never be caught short not knowing how to ask: &quot;Do you come to this noctambupark often?  Are the bats given annual rabies shots?&quot;  (&quot;Venez-vous souvent a ce noctambuparc?  Est-ce que les chauves-souris recoivent leurs piqures de rage annuelle?&quot;)  It is loaded with delightful factoids such as: &quot;Some Parisians don't have sheepskin covers for car seats, but drive around with live sheep in the laps.  Thus 'Revenons a nos moutons!' is also the cry of the man roaming the levels of the parking structure in search of his bleating Peugeot.&quot;  It's liberally illustrated with wondrous and slightly mad collages as fascinating as the prose.<br />If you cherish journeys of the mind, then this book is for you.	2001-01-19
US	53094487	R1WRVFVKRMU86E	1555835201	388148206	Rough Stuff: Tales of Gay Men, Sex, and Power	Books	3	17	17	N	Y	Hot, sometimes scary	Bluntly sexual, raunchy, heavy with BDSM, Rough Stuff takes the reader into some seriously non-vanilla realms.  Some readers might find that it doesn't go far enough, but for a reasonably mainstream volume, I think it pushes the envelope just enough.  If the sexuality of power and pain fascinates you, give this one a try.	2001-01-19
US	53094487	R37N3MN58RQ6L4	1558597174	396589350	The World of Donald Evans	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A book to treasure	The art world seems to cherish the large; large works, large personalities, large prices.  That's why it's good to see the small celebrated, and in the work of Donald Evans, it is celebrated with such elan, that it's impossible to read this book without smiling and even laughing out loud.<br />Evans was an artist whose work is almost entirely made up of faux postage stamps (postoids, as they're known in mail art circles) celebrating not only fictional countries, but the small things of everyday life: fruit, chickens, garlic, plants and flowers.  His postal ephemera is vivid and dryly funny, and conforms to an internal logic and order that is awesome.  Leaf through the book and enjoy the stamps from Achterdijk celebrating windmills, or the block of four pesto stamps from Mangiare.  During his short life his output was prodigious, his imagination remarkable.<br />If you like the work of Nick Bantock, Donald Evans will be just your style.	2001-01-19
US	53094487	RHZPIYSPKCEAE	1571200606	190232960	Designing the Doll: From Concept to Construction	Books	5	84	85	N	Y	Not only beautiful, but useful!	&quot;Designing the Doll&quot; gives many great examples of remarkable artist dolls, but it also gives some excellent how-tos that will help you realize your own designs.  This isn't a project-oriented book; there are no real step-by-step instructions that will help you make a specific doll.  Rather, this book gives the artist a good grounding in basic technique.  Where you go from there is entirely your own business.  Some of the techniques Oroyan covers are: sculpting, jointing, soft bodies, wire armature and materials.  You'll come away from this book with enough information to design and follow through with your own projects.<br />It's been a long time since I made a doll, but this book has got me wanting to try all sorts of new things.	2001-01-12
US	53094487	R3P4HQCH8D5LM6	0843945443	677952779	The Wreck of Misericordia	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not my cup of tea	Four hundred years ago, Misericordia, a Spanish galleon loaded with treasure valued on today's market at a quarter of a billion dollars, sank in international waters off the coast of the Carolinas.  Traditional salvage has not been able to touch the wreck, but now, thanks to a new underwater technology, the incredible treasure of Misericordia is within reach.  A Cuban-American group is funding the salvage efforts.  The Cuban government, fearing that the treasure will be used to fund dissidents in their own country, wants to stop the mission, and wants very much to claim the treasure for itself.<br />Let me be quite honest, I slogged through about half of this book and gave up.  It never managed to transcend the problems I find common to many books in this genre.  It's plot-heavy and character-light, and frankly, if a book doesn't offer me strong, compelling characters, and if it doesn't shed some light on character relationships, I find that I'm not at all inclined to start reading much less finish.  I found the plot fairly pedestrian by comparison to the work of the few action-type novelists I have enjoyed in the past.  Schaill isn't the audacious plotter Clive Cussler is, and he doesn't provide the sharp, tense, intelligent plots that are Robert Ludlum's specialty.	2001-01-05
US	53094487	R3L7MN8GQNA7J7	084394658X	753181731	The 37th Mandala	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Mark Laidlaw understands the nature of horror	In the Tuol Sleng Museum of Genocide in Cambodia, a journalist is seeking a manuscript.  But this manuscript is more than just a pile of papers, a memoir written by yet another nameless victim of Khmer killing squads, it has a life of its own, and the entities within it want to be known to the world.  These entities - thirty-seven mandalas which feed upon human passions - want more scope for their needs.  They want more food.<br />Horror doesn't have to be invented.  True horror exists in our world as a recognition of our own darkest depths; how can we help but recoil from tales of torture and murder so egregious that some people persist in believing the events described could not have happened?  Mark Laidlaw understands the nature of horror, and he uses this knowledge to root his novel, THE 37TH MANDALA, firmly in those shadowy realms which we do not wish to see, but cannot quite look away from.  He opens the book in in a place which stands as a monument to the Cambodians - between one and two million by most estimates, as many as a quarter of the country's inhabitants - who were tortured and murdered by the Khmer Rouge, their own countrymen, between 1975 and 1979, their bodies strewn on what is now known as \\"The Killing Fields.\\"  It's to his credit that he does not attempt to explain away evil by attributing it to the influence of the mandalas (or any external force) because that would ring false.  Rather he presents us with a group of living things that feed upon cruelty and evil and perhaps intensify it, but which never create it.  And it's here that the real horror of this book lies, in the knowledge that the mandalas exist in a sort of symbiotic relationship with human beings, gobbling up the emotions which we are constantly throwing off, deriving more nourishment from the strong ones, delighting in the malign ones as if they were emotional t-bone steaks.<br />Laidlaw has created a nearly seamless narrative that carries the reader along on a flow of ideas as much as on the action, a trait he shares with Stephen King.  His characters are both believable and memorable.  I didn't much like Derek Crowe, Lenore, Michael, Elias Mooney or the others, but I doubt I'll forget them easily precisely because they were so human and fallible.  I recognized these people and, despite myself, I identified with them.  Though I had a few problems with  the narrative they are, perhaps, more my problems than Laidlaw's.  I found some of his choices a little gratuitous, and frankly, the novel's end was rather more downbeat than I like.  Despite that, I derived a good deal of pleasure from the skill with which Laidlaw presents his ideas, in his tight, unflinching prose which forces the reader to bring a good deal of thought to the story.  In one particularly brilliant section, the protagonist (naming her would give away too much of the plot) witnesses a scene between mother and child from two levels of consciousness - human and mandala.  Laidlaw gives us a scene of terrible rage and cruelty in counterpoint to the ordinary dealings between a petulant child and an irritated mother, and in a moment the workings of the mandalas become at once clearer and more ambiguous.  If spiritual and emotional ambiguity disturb you, or if you don't feel like working with the author to get the meat of the story, then skip this book.  But if you're prepared for a book which forces you to think about these issues, then THE 37TH MANDALA is well worth your time.s much as on the action, a trait he shares with Stephen King.   His characters are both believable and memorable.  I didn't much like Derek Crowe, Lenore, Michael, Elias Mooney or the others, but I doubt I'll forget them easily precisely because they were so human and fallible.  I recognized these people and, despite myself, I identified with them.  Though I had a few problems with  the narrative they are, perhaps, more my problems than Laidlaw's.  I found some of his choices a little gratuitous, and frankly, the novel's end was rather more downbeat than I like.  Despite that, I derived a good deal of pleasure from the skill with which Laidlaw presents his ideas, in his tight, unflinching prose which forces the reader to bring a good deal of thought to the story.  In one particularly brilliant section, the protagonist (naming her would give away too much of the plot) witnesses a scene between mother and child from two levels of consciousness - human and mandala.  Laidlaw gives us a scene of terrible rage and cruelty in counterpoint to the ordinary dealings between a petulant child and an irritated mother, and in a moment the workings of the mandalas become at once clearer and more ambiguous.  If spiritual and emotional ambiguity disturb you, or if you don't feel like working with the author to get the meat of the story, then skip this book.  But if you're prepared for a book which forces you to think about these issues, then THE 37TH MANDALA is well worth your time.	2001-01-05
US	53094487	RX4G9YEI8SDLZ	0446600520	134382250	Sisters of the Night	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Something for every taste	Fourteen original short stories by award-winning authors such as Tanith Lee, Jane Yolen, Larry Niven and Barbara Hambly explore a dark sisterhood of blood.  The past, the present and the future are all stalking grounds for these women who hunt the night.  Hambly and Greenberg have taken a rather simple subject - female vampires - and collected fourteen tales from a diverse group of authors, which seek to illuminate the life, if it can be called life, of the female of a deadly, and sensual species.<br />As Hambly says in her introduction, there was no way to know in advance what she would find.  Would the stories sent by men be dramatically different in focus and treatment from those of the women writers?  And in the end, it seems to me that for the most part, there is a kind of unity of thought expressed in these stories which are at the same time, all quite different from each other.  That unity - a real sense of what it means to be female first and foremost - is the thread that truly makes this volume fascinating.  These creatures are women first, and vampires second.<br />In this volume you'll find all manner of vampire.  Michael Kurland checks in with the most familiar take on the subject in his old-world, but deliciously perverse \\"In the Blood.\\"  Diana Paxson gives us a myth with the feel of a Norse saga and Pat Cadigan scrapes nerve endings raw with a contemporary tale of life and death on the trash-heap in \\"Sometimes Salvation.\\"  Tanith Lee offers her special brand of slow, languid, gorgeous horror in \\"La Dame\\" and George Alec Effinger even manages to work in a little cyberpunk with \\"Marid and the Trail of Blood.  To my way of thinking, though, the true stand-out in this book is the last, shortest story, a powerful, stark, wrenching piece entitled \\"Sister Death\\" by Jane Yolen.  If any of the stories have you in tears by the end, it will be this one.<br />If you're a fan of vampires or of horror, this book is a good bet.  There's something for every taste here, and the over-all theme is well served by the editorial choices.  Buy it.here, and the over-all theme is well served by the editorial choices.  Buy it.	2001-01-05
US	53094487	R2364518VE1RDH	0446605719	211055438	Highlander(TM): The Captive Soul	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not a bad addition to the Highlander chronicles	In an an original story based on Highlander, the series, Josepha Sherman gives readers a story that begins in bronze-age Egypt, under the Hyksos overlords and spans thirty centuries of obsession and madness.  For three thousand years Prince Khyan has sought one very special sword, a sword which, he believes, holds the soul of his dead brother who was once a king in Egypt.  His search brings him to present-day Manhattan, and back into conflict with Methos, the man he holds responsible for the death of his brother, and the loss of the throne.<br />For any writer tackling a novel based on a series like Highlander, one inescapable problem exists: How do you make your work interesting to fans of the show while making it accessible to readers who may have no prior knowledge of the universe in which your characters exist?  Josepha Sherman balances these concerns nicely, integrating series back story in a fairly seamless manner.  The plot itself is fairly straightforward though never simple-minded:  Methos, drawn against his will into a struggle between two ways of life, comes to view that struggle as his own thanks, in great part, to the love he comes to feel for a much-abused young slave he meets at the Hyksos court.  Because of her he makes some hard decisions, takes action and must face the consequences.  It's a feature of this particular universe that the consequences can wait three millennia before coming home to roost, and that very personal sense of history is perhaps one of the most alluring things about Highlander.  Sherman's historical detail is excellent, throwing some light on a previously rather shadowy episode in Egyptian history.  Admittedly, she does some fudging of dates and events, but that's not really an issue when you're reading a story in which the plot advances so smoothly.<br />A caveat: This is a Methos story, and despite back and inside front cover blurbs which raise some expectation that MacLeod will be a central figure in the story, he remains very thinly drawn in the few present-day episodes that set up the final conflict between Methos and Khyan.  As such, he rarely comes across as much more than a not-particularly-interesting secondary character.  Nor does his relationship with Methos register as much more than, as Duncan himself says, \\"acquaintances.\\"  This may prove to be a little disappointing to those readers who enjoy the friendship between the characters as we see them in the series.  Fortunately Duncan is the only character to suffer such a fate.  Sherman captures much of the essence of Methos' charm in her narrative, from his instinct for survival, to his wry sense of humor.  She never falters even as she takes him from his habitual position of enlightened self-interest to a passionate desire for justice and revenge.  Her way with secondary characters is equally skilled, particularly with the women;  Nebet, Tiaa and the Dowager Queen of Egypt are all well-drawn, interesting characters in their own right.  Indeed, Sherman has a way of painting both the external and internal landscapes of a character with a few deft strokes - Tiaa's seductive walk, Nebet's unbound hair as a symbol of her growing trust in and love for Methos - which I find irresistible.  The relationships between Methos and Nebet, and Methos and Tiaa serve as nice counterpoints of love and lust respectively, and the restrained love scenes, far from being intrusive, really do serve to advance the plot.  Sherman also is deft at capturing the bittersweet quality of any love between Mortal and Immortal.  Though his time with her was short even by Mortal standards, Methos' memory of Nebet is private, indelible and colored by regret.<br />Slightly less deft is Sherman's handling of the physical world.  As a reader, I prefer more sensory input:  What does this world smell like?  Sound like?  What are the textures one encounters?  Sherman's  descriptions rarely go beyond the purely visual, though she does an excellent job of conveying a world once bright, that has gone gray with subjugation and paranoia.  Her action scenes, though, are excellent; she can render a battle or a one-on-one encounter so that it makes sense to her readers, and this is no mean feat.  A good sense of action can enliven a book, and in the case of The Captive Soul, it becomes central to the narrative by allowing us to participate in a world far removed from our own.  Sherman is, in fact, so good with such scenes that a few may be disturbing for sensitive readers; this is, after all, a world removed from our own by more than thirty centuries.  While there is very little in the way of loving description of atrocities, much is implied.  Sherman also does a nice job of moving back and forth between Egypt and contemporary Manhattan, with a balanced,  flowing style, crisp dialogue and an equally crisp sense of humor.  The narrative is well paced in the Egyptian sequences, though slightly less so in the contemporary chapters, and the ending is a bit abrupt though not ultimately unsatisfying.ng a world once bright, that has gone gray with subjugation and paranoia.  Her action scenes, though, are excellent; she can render a battle or a one-on-one encounter so that it makes sense to her readers, and this is no mean feat.  A good sense of action can enliven a book, and in the case of The Captive Soul, it becomes central to the narrative by allowing us to participate in a world far removed from our own.  Sherman is, in fact, so good with such scenes that a few may be disturbing for sensitive readers; this is, after all, a world removed from our own by more than thirty centuries.  While there is very little in the way of loving description of atrocities, much is implied.  Sherman also does a nice job of moving back and forth between Egypt and contemporary Manhattan, with a balanced,  flowing style, crisp dialogue and an equally crisp sense of humor.  The narrative is well paced in the Egyptian sequences, though slightly less so in the contemporary chapters, and the ending is a bit abrupt though not ultimately unsatisfying.	2001-01-05
US	53094487	R3C00MJSC2W5YO	0061059455	295046296	Piercing the Darkness: Undercover with Vampires in America Today	Books	4	23	28	N	N	A must-have for vampire fans	Ramsland's name should be familiar to fans of Anne Rice; she's the author of THE VAMPIRE COMPANION and PRISM OF THE NIGHT: A BIOGRAPHY OF ANNE RICE among others.  In PIERCING THE DARKNESS, though, Ramsland moves somewhat beyond her academic interest in the Great Mother of the Vampires into the shadowy world of \\"real\\" vampires in America.  And if a fault can be found with this book, I believe it's here at the most fundamental level, when Ramsland fails to define her terms to a degree which I could find satisfying.  Ostensibly she has chosen to follow in the footsteps of another journalist, Susan Walsh, who disappeared in 1996 while investigating vampire cults in Manhattan.  However it seems clear to me that Walsh is something of an excuse for Ramsland, and understandably so, since Walsh's story is a cautionary one.  Using it as a foundation for her own investigation would be an aid in walking the fine line between investigative journalism and actually becoming involved in the subculture of America's vampires.  Unfortunately it's hard to get a fix on Ramsland, and perhaps that's not a bad thing for a journalist in her position who should remain professionally non-judgmental, but I found it disturbing never to know quite what her position was in terms of what constitutes a \\"real\\" vampire as opposed to a poseur.  Indeed, she has a discussion along these lines with another investigator, but I found no answer there either.<br />Never mind all that, though, because the book itself is eminently readable and the subject matter fascinating to anyone who enjoys vampires in film and literature.  I would strongly caution readers with delicate sensibilities to give this book a pass, though, since it deals with some very disturbing subject matter:  descriptions of blood-letting, sexuality which some consider highly deviant, accounts of body modification and the like all serve to make this book a walk on the dark side.  Ramsland is innately honest and doesn't flinch from the grotesque or bloody, nor from describing it, though without recourse to sensationalism.  And she writes sympathetically about the people she encounters, never putting herself above or beyond them in any way.  In fact, one of the most interesting aspects of the book is her own responses to what she uncovers, her fascination with and willingness to enter this milieu.<br />For those who find the subject worth investigating further, Ramsland provides a good bibliography, and an excellent list of vampire resources both on and off the net.  For my money this book is a fascinating read and well worth your time if you're a vampire aficionado.  Highly recommended.sque or bloody, nor from describing it, though without recourse to sensationalism.  And she writes sympathetically about the people she encounters, never putting herself above or beyond them in any way.  In fact, one of the most interesting aspects of the book is her own responses to what she uncovers, her fascination with and willingness to enter this milieu.<br />For those who find the subject worth investigating further, Ramsland provides a good bibliography, and an excellent list of vampire resources both on and off the net.  For my money this book is a fascinating read and well worth your time if you're a vampire aficionado.  Highly recommended.	2001-01-05
US	53094487	R3HRUHC9LYAWRP	0767903625	142134349	Wake Up, I'm Fat!	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Let's hear it for the fat girl!	You have to hand it to Camryn; she makes no apology for who or what she is, and I find that refreshing.  Her life reads fast and furious.  She's direct, outspoken and funny as hell.  In a milieu where whiny star bios are the norm, hers is a great read.  If you prefer your women skinny and seen, but not heard, forget it; you'll hate this book.  I loved it.	2000-12-31
US	53094487	RC2U8HC3U92CC	081182523X	476582555	Retro Revamp: Funky Projects from Handbags to Housewares	Books	5	6	6	N	N	SUCH a cool book...	Tired of all those books that look like they're going to give you some concrete information on how YOU can redecorate, refinish, refurbish, redo or re-anything, but then deliver only complicated and expensive projects?  Retro Revamp is here for you.  This little book presents lots of easy, affordable, and adaptable projects that almost anyone can do with a little time and patience.  It also nudges you towards seeing the possibilities inherent in so much of the stuff we all have lying around the house.  This one is worth every penny; you will love it!	2000-12-31
US	53094487	R3A3MLBYDJPFET	0823002780	848432614	The Art of Polymer Clay: Designs and Techniques for Making Jewelry, Pottery, and Decorative Artwork	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	One of the best poly clay books on the market	Let me be upfront right at the start:  Donna is a friend of mine; I worked for her when she owned a bead store here in Chicago, and at the time when she first began to work with poly clay. I've edited her project pamphlets, and I know her work very well, and have always thought that it was some of the best clay work I've ever seen.<br />This book is a compendium of so many techniques that it's difficult to know where to start.  It's not a project-based book, so if you're looking for something to follow by the numbers, look elsewhere.  But if you're looking for a lot of good, sound instruction on clay techniques, this is the book for you.  Bring your own ideas and let Donna help you make them reality.<br />I can vouch for the fact that she knows her stuff; I saw her creating many of these objects, teaching herself the strengths and weaknesses of polymer clay and learning how to push the boundaries of what could be done in the medium.  She has the chops, and she's sharing them.  Learn from her!  You won't regret investing in this book.	2000-12-31
US	53094487	R2N2N3Z6HCXN2L	067122350X	271089693	Eloise: A Book for Precocious Grown Ups	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Eloise is a delight for all ages	Don't let the reading level of 4-8 throw you.  Eloise is loved by people of all ages, not just little ones.  She's everyone's inner child run wild in a playground full of adults, reducing institutions to so much fodder for her active imagination.  Eloise will make you feel young and wicked (in an innocent way!)  She will surprise and delight you, and make you cackle with delicious shock.  She is my hero.<br />Read this book!  I mean it.  It's rawther liberating.	2000-12-29
US	53094487	R20KWC6SEDWUMX	1568581238	3341569	Assuming the Position: A Memoir of Hustling	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	Surprisingly bland	I don't really know what I expected.  Prostitution is, after all, an act so loaded with emotional baggage that it's hard to imagine anyone ringing any new changes on the subject.  Unfortunately Whitaker seems about as involved in his narrative as he was in his tricks, and that makes for unfortunate reading.  The book alternates between a kind of laundry list of sex and drugs, and some fairly unsurprising rambles on why he does what he does.  It's not badly written, but it's just not awfully engaging or particularly enlightening for anyone who really wants to get down to the whys and wherefores of prostitution.  Oh...and it's not particularly sexy either....	2000-12-24
US	53094487	R2RACT0R5PMBY1	0964279924	289513045	The Best Christmas Decorations in Chicagoland	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Makes points just for existing	Perhaps one of the fondest memories of any Chicago childhood is the Christmas lights.  We love our decorations, and in some parts of the city, we go all out, turning our homes into little &quot;winter wonderlands&quot; for our own pleasure and that of our friends, neighbors, and often carloads of strangers who cruise the more decorated neighborhoods.  That's why I snarfed up this book as soon as I knew it existed, and for the most part, I wasn't disappointed.  Edsey covers a lot of the best areas for decorations, gives some historical background, and displays a real love for her subject, which strikes a responsive chord in me.  However, I was disappointed in the photography which was a bit fuzzy and rather darker than I would have liked.  Now, granted, all this has to be shot in the dark for maximum effect, but holiday magazines manage to make their photographs crisp and clear, with little loss of architectural detail.  And I know it's not about the architecture, but that always will inform the way the decorations appear to onlookers.  To lose those details is to lose some of what makes the lights and decorations so appealing.<br />However, nothing else like this exists, and I have to give high marks to this volume if only on that count.  It's way better than nothing!  So if you're a Christmas junkie and a Chicago lover, then by all means, buy this book, and enjoy.	2000-12-19
US	53094487	R3H777LM1CRB0K	092291558X	659284677	Voluptuous Panic: The Erotic World of Weimar Berlin	Books	5	86	90	N	Y	An amazing record of a time and place	The vision of Weimar Berlin as a bastion of decadence in increasingly Nazi-fied Germany is perhaps due in large part to our familiarity with the musical &quot;Cabaret&quot; or with Isherwood's &quot;Berlin Stories.&quot;  But in fact, the available documentation for that vision has been pretty slim until recently.<br />Mel Gordon has spent years assembling the material he shares in this amazing book.  Be warned; this is not a pleasant book to read.  The images can be disturbing or downright upsetting, and the information therein is similarly unsettling.  It is, however, an invaluable resource for any student of the period as it makes available material that has simply not been widely seen outside of Germany.<br />If you are as fascinated as I am with the period between the wars, this book is a must-have.  It gives depth to the glossy, Hollywood version of Berlin decadence, and shows it to be born as much out of poverty and hopelessness as out of the free expression of sexuality/sensuality.  And please do take quite seriously the warning:  This book is NOT for the faint of heart.	2000-12-16
US	53094487	R3HV6C02TXWEA3	0874778808	181144409	Beat Spirit	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A pleasant surprise	I was a little skeptical, but there I was in my Beat period, snarfing up all the info I could get, and this book seemed like a good bet.  Got it, started to read, and more to the point, tried some of the exercises.  Within a week I found myself writing more freely, saying more things I'd  been wanting to say.  I don't necessarily think this book is going to make  your life better, or even your writing, but if you take the exercises (some  of them; some just seem sort of silly) to heart and really give them a  chance, you just might find your mind opening up to what the beat spirit  was all about.	2000-07-20
US	53094487	RGMEUFHMNRFQK	0689832117	9483240	Eloise in Moscow	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Definitely Da.	Possibly the quirkiest of a quirky series, &quot;Eloise in Moscow&quot; is a delight.  There is hardly a creature on earth more likely to confound early cold war Soviet society than Eloise, and here she runs roughshod over guides, interpreters, spies and everyone else whose job it is to see her  safely around and out of Moscow.  Skibbling down strange hallways, dancing  in the snow with the babushkas or attempting to communicate in Russian  (&quot;Charge it, pajalsta, and thank you very much.&quot;) Eloise, as  always, leaves us wanting more.  Almost impossible to find before now, this  is a must-have for Eloise fans.	2000-03-15
US	53094487	R1YD4Z5CRNP8T7	0843945508	217573810	Bite	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A gory good time	Bite is one of those guilty pleasures, a book you pretty much figure you shouldn't be liking but once you let go of your prejudices and let the story take over, it's like a mad roller-coaster ride into the nasty places  of the human mind.  Briefly, boy meets old flame who needs him to kill a  vampire for her.  He does, and they spend the rest of the novel trying to  get rid of the body.  It's a horror novel, though not one that will scare  you much, it's a road trip of the weirdest sort, and it's a comedy that is  irresistibly spiteful, skirting the sharp edges of madness.  This is not  Stephen King, folks, this is the guy who runs the museum full of two-headed  sheep and stuffed jackalopes.  For lovers of flim-flam, the strange and the  absurd.	2000-01-31
US	53094487	RED4RPRIWCA7L	0446673668	575823243	The Wild Swans	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Silence = Death	Not-quite-parallel, but related stories set 300 years apart, tell the stories of two young people who may or may not be related by blood but are definitely related by misfortune.  \\"The Wild Swans\\" is partly a  reworking  of Hans Christian Anderson's fairytale about a girl who must save her  brothers from a spell which has turned them into swans, and partly a tale  of a young man rejected by his family because he's gay. It's a remarkably  apt connection to have made because the message of the AIDS activists -  Silence = Death - is so important to both stories.  There are many points  at which the stories can and do meet, but one of the most elegant is the  idea of the weaving of the nettles (for which, substitute grief and memory)  into the shirts (read the AIDS quilt) which will release the swan-men from  their enchantment (a symbolic gesture of solidarity and support for AIDS  victims and AIDS research.)  Without beating her readers over the head with  a message, Kerr manages to express all the most important ideas and  emotions in a graceful narrative that has moments of remarkable beauty.  Highly recommended.	2000-01-31
US	53094487	R302ZNM9S2LG1G	0374189870	56265932	Lives of the Monster Dogs	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Good beginning fades to disappointing ending	Let me preface my remarks by saying that I wanted very much tolike this book.  In fact, I did enjoy the first half, and told all myfriends they =had= to read it.  Then I finished it... To say I was disappointed is mild.  I was angry.  I felt utterly short-changed by Bakis who dodged all the important questions of interaction between the human and non-human, who required more than her fair share of willing suspensions of disbelief (all authors get one per story; it is to be hoped they make the most of it.  In Monster Dogs, the allowed suspension of disbelief must be that the dogs can exist at all.), and who never delved deeply enough into her characters to allow us to know them on any important level.  By the thudding end of the book, which should have been a kind of decadent doggish Gotterdammerung, all I felt was relief - relief that the monster dogs' short, unhappy existence had come to an end fairly naturally, and relief that the book was over.  The issues Bakis could have and should have raised in this book would have made a story at least twice as long.  She utterly fudged the issue of the dogs' murder of their human masters by making Rankstadt so obscure that it was impossible to find the place and verify the story of the slaughter.  (How convenient, now we don't have to deal with the issue of the murders in any realistic way.)  She fudged the issue of acceptance by making them fabulously wealthy (Anne Rice did this in &quot;Belinda&quot; and raised my hackles.), and by plunking them down in New York and explaining that New Yorkers are more sophisticated than most people and rather liked the dogs' oddness.  (But what about the rest of the world?  What sort of never-never land is this?)  Most of all she fudged the issue of the relationship between Cleo and Ludwig.  We're supposed to believe that these two loved each other?  How?  How many times did they actually see each other?  What sort of intimacy (and I don't necessarily mean sexual intimacy here.) did they exchange?  Did we ever see any indication that each of them found the other special in any way? We're told they did, but that's bad writing.  We needed to be shown. And the problem here is that if we were to see a more intimate interaction then the issue of sexuality would at least have to be acknowledged if not acted upon.  Better to have left the issue unraised than to deal dishonestly with it.  What I would tell Bakis is that her writing is not bad, but it would improve dramatically if she gave more time and thought to characterization, did not raise issues she was not prepared to deal with, and told us less while showing us more.  Show don't tell, show don't tell - a lesson that should be engraved on the heart of any writer.  On the plus side - yes there is one - the idea, though obviously cribbed from H. G. Welles' Dr. Moreau, is a wonderful one, and she deals with it in an original way, Bakis' style is clean and direct, and quite easy to read, and I think she shows some talent for pastiche.  I will certainly consider reading her next book.  Do I recommend this one? Yes and no.  If you read it uncritically and are willing and able to fill in the huge gaps in the information we're given, it may not disappoint.  Failing that, I'd have to say \\"no.\\"exchange?  Did we ever see any indication that each of them found the other special in any way? We're told they did, but that's bad writing.  We needed to be shown. And the problem here is that if we were to see a more intimate interaction then the issue of sexuality would at least have to be acknowledged if not acted upon.  Better to have left the issue unraised than to deal dishonestly with it.  What I would tell Bakis is that her writing is not bad, but it would improve dramatically if she gave more time and thought to characterization, did not raise issues she was not prepared to deal with, and told us less while showing us more.  Show don't tell, show don't tell - a lesson that should be engraved on the heart of any writer.  On the plus side - yes there is one - the idea, though obviously cribbed from H. G. Welles' Dr. Moreau, is a wonderful one, and she deals with it in an original way, Bakis' style is clean and direct, and quite easy to read, and I think she shows some talent for pastiche.  I will certainly consider reading her next book.  Do I recommend this one? Yes and no.  If you read it uncritically and are willing and able to fill in the huge gaps in the information we're given, it may not disappoint.  Failing that, I'd have to say \\"no.\\"	1997-07-11
US	53094487	R1KTI7NV4SKFZ4	0679429220	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Niceness doesn't make compelling reading	As I read this book I was reminded of \\"Seinfeld\\" a show in which the characters are terribly engaging despite the fact that they're utterly unlikeable.  Berendt has an eye for the weakness of the flesh, but he reports on it, not judgementally, but with good humor.  The people who populate the book, from the murdered boy to the man who killed him, from the feckless party boy to the black drag queen, are all beautifully written.  If they end up looking less than savory, it's their own doing - out of their own mouths they are condemned - Berendt just reports the facts as he saw or heard them.  I don't think that this story is as much about Savannah, or even about the South as it is about how people in any fairly inbred socity can become odd or eccentric.  This is the sort of story that could take place anywhere; the grace notes are typically Southern, but the passions involved are universal, and that's what makes this such a compelling book.  I recommend it highly	1997-07-11
