US	53094239	R3H05AUEO26L9T	0880642246	724544041	All or Nothing at All: A Life of Frank Sinatra	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Excellent and Opinionated Book	Frank Sinatra was always a puzzle -- he sang like an angel, behaved like a jerk, and yet was apparently an extremely generous individual who kept his many charities secret. <br /> <br />Donald Clarke sits with all the contradictions of Sinatra, both musical and personal, without attempting to simplify them.  The reviewer below who complained that the book is like an extended essay is right.  Clarke does not attempt, in this relatively slim volume, to write the definitive biographical work.  It is instead a shrewd, opinionated, and often funny review of the man and his music.  <br /> <br />I'm not a FS fanatic, but I do own about 40 or 50 of his albums, which I guess makes me more than a casual fan.  I almost always agreed with Clarke's musical judgements (although I think rather more of \\"Live at the Sands\\" than he does) and found a lot of value in the way he attempts to separate Sinatra's own bloviations from the facts (e.g. was Mitch Miller really responsible for how bad much of Sinatra's mid-50s work is? Not really, says Clarke, and gives reasons for this opinion). <br /> <br />This book is not a replacement for a full-length biography -- if you want the details on who slapped who first in every fight he had with Ava Gardner, you'll have to go elsewhere.  It's also not a replacement for an annotated discography, although it made me hungry for one -- I thought I had a pretty good handle on Sinatra's recorded output, and Clarke made me realize there's a lot I don't know. <br /> <br />As for Clarke's writing style, I say \\"bravo.\\"  Judging by the impish grin he's wearing in the jacket photo, I'd say he's well aware of how provocative some of his comments are, but there's nothing arrogant about this book.  Clarke has his opinions, and states them very strongly, but it's clear the reader is welcome to his or her own.  If you're the sort of reader who is secure enough to enjoy strongly held and amusingly stated beliefs rather than be upset by them, I recommend this bookmost highly.	2005-08-06
US	53094239	RJ9CK34VJREBL	0684843056	633269711	Tijuana Straits: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the Best Books I've Read This Year -- or Any Other	I stumbled across Kem Nunn's \\"Tapping the Source\\" almost 20 years ago and absolutely loved it.  Then I wandered off for a while.  This one made me track down everything he's written since and read it. <br /> <br />Forget \\"kept me up all night.\\"  This book not only kept me up all night (on a work night), but after I finished I immediately went back and re-read a bunch of my favorite parts.  Nunn's portrait of the Tijuana estuary, an odd corner of the universe saved from development by pollution and illegal immigration, is fascinating.  So is his protagonist, a man with a shattered and blighted life who finds himself in a situation requiring great heroism and rises to the occasion bit by reluctant bit. <br /> <br />\\"Tapping the Source\\" was really about the innocence of youth.  \\"Tijuana Flats\\" is in some ways a polar opposite. Every character has done things they regret and suffered terrible defeats.  Some have become monsters as a result, some not. <br /> <br />I loved the surfing lore, but I've never surfed and probably never will (unfortunately) -- you definitely don't have to be a surfer to enjoy this one.	2005-03-22
US	53094239	R2SWV0BCFVUC30	1879957558	42091853	Politics of War: The Story of Two Wars Which Altered Forever the Political Life of the American Republic	Books	5	53	54	N	N	A Great Bit of Contrarian History	This book is most provocative in its treatment of the generally revered Woodrow Wilson and the story of how (according to Karp) he cynically engineered our entry into WW I, motivated by Anglophilia and a messianic (and in Karp's view delusional) conviction that he could bring a new era of peace and justice to the world. <br /> <br />A number of books have made similar allegations about FDR and our entry into WW II, but at the end of the day, who cares? Does anyone really think the world would be a better place if the U.S. had stayed out of World War II? <br /> <br />WW I was quite a different kettle of fish, as Karp points out. It was not in any way clear that the U.S. had something to gain from involving itself in a sordid struggle in which neither side held the moral high ground. And Karp argues rather convincingly that Wilson was played for a fool -- he tipped the balance to Britain's Lloyd George and France's Clemenceau, only to see these enormously cynical and skillful politicians torpedo his \\"just peace\\" in favor of viciously punitive terms which ultimately led to the rise of Adolph Hitler. <br /> <br />Karp also discusses Wilson's suppression of free speech and his aggressive use of propaganda in favor of the war effort. <br /> <br />Karp was a frequent contributor to Harper's magazine who unfortunately died quite young a number of years ago. This little-known book should be read by anyone interested in America in the WW I era and in the development of modern American political culture. It's also worth studying if you want to understand better why U.S. public opinion was so resolutely isolationist up until the attack on Pearl Harbor. Wilson got his war, but the experience left a very bad taste in the mouth of the American public. <br /> <br />	2005-03-21
US	53094239	R39ISWFPJ8EQTZ	0609605054	944188838	Waterfront: A Journey Around Manhattan (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Best Book I've Read on New York in a Long Time	Phillip LoPate's \\"Waterfront\\" is an elegantly structured, beautifully written book.  The central narrative thread takes him around the perimeter of the island of Manhattan, and anyone who's even a little bit curious about ruins, industrial archaeology, and odd and forgotten spots will read about his adventures and travails with great pleasure.   <br /> <br />LoPate is also well versed in urban design, architecture and New York's history and uses each neighborhood as a chance to discuss everything from the politics of urban renewal to Manhattan's history as a center of piracy.  <br /> <br />In addition to the neighborhood-by-neighborhood travelogue, LoPate also includes several short \\"excursions\\" on other topics of related to New York's history and present, ranging from a discussion of shipworms to a revisionist look at the much-loathed Robert Moses. <br /> <br />Not only is LoPate's own writing wonderful, but he drops in lots of pointers to other works -- I'm really tempted to look for \\"Heartbeats in the Muck\\" (about the ecological revival of NY harbor) if only to have the title on my bookshelf. <br /> <br />Frankly, I picked this book up because I thought it would be a good before-bed book -- not too engaging, nice sleep aid.  The joke was on me: I ended up staying up all night and reading the entire thing.	2004-12-16
US	53094239	R27KI2KP2TK8IJ	080211783X	491537206	Zappa: A Biography	Books	4	12	18	N	N	A Darn Good Book	I'm going to have to dissent from the first few reviews here.  I spotted some factual inaccuracies of my own (Memphis as the center of the C&W biz, Strom Thurmond as a senator from South Dakota), but overall I thought the story was well told, the musical judgments were solid, and Miles does an excellent job of placing Zappa in his historical context. <br /> <br />If you want a purely laudatory treatment of Zappa, this is not the book for you -- Zappa emerges as a pretty thoroughly unpleasant and psychologically damaged individual.  But Miles never attempts to reduce Zappa to his foibles a la Kitty Kelly.  If you have previously seen Zappa only as he wanted to be seen, you may be a bit disillusioned, but then Zappa would have been the first one to warn us about the dangers of hero worship. <br /> <br />I'd give this 5 stars were it not for the inaccuracies (and I'm sure there were more I didn't know enough to spot).  And just for the record, quite a few things in the book are sourced to interviews Miles did with Zappa, although it's certainly true that the majority of the book is based on secondary resarch.	2004-11-30
US	53094239	R1ZA4U7EBD5ZH5	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	5	140	164	N	N	An Absolutely Wonderful Book	Thomas Frank's &quot;What's the Matter With Kansas&quot; is the best book I've ever read about modern American politics .  First, Frank is an excellent writer with a sharp eye and a sense of humor, so the book is a real pleasure to read.  But that's just a bonus.  The real value of the book is Frank's way of looking at politics and culture in the era of the right wing backlash.  <br />Kansas, where he grew up (in comfort, but not affluence), is his case study, a place where all the contradictions of post 1980 politics are even more contradictory than usual.  He shifts back and forth between his microscopic examination of Kansas to a &quot;what does it all mean?&quot; 30,000-foot perspective in a way that takes full advantage of a &quot;case study&quot; approach. The shifts between real-life vignettes and philosophizing are handled very deftly.  You never feel oppressed by too much detail, nor lost in abstract thought.<br />He avoids jargon and insiderism (in this book, as in Kansas, Washington DC is a rather far-off place where weird things happen), but comments quite astutely on the national political scene and the two major parties.  You also get some great factoids.  Who knew that the libertarian Cato Institute and the Democratic Leadership Council were funded in part(in large part in the case of Cato) by the same secretive ultra-right Kansas business dynasty?  I didn't.<br />Frank's basic thesis is not a novel one -- the culture wars of the post-1980 era have led voters to largely ignore their economic self-interest and support politicians who primarily serve the interest of large corporations and the very rich.  What's important about the book is the way it brings the details to life and explains the inter-connections between the parts.  This book would be a real education to most Europeans, who must ponder the politics of the U.S. in utter bafflement, and will offer many insights to Americans who wonder how working-class people can so consistently support &quot;the party of the rich.&quot;<br />Frank has a good command of history, but never tries to dazzle the reader with scholarship or bury the reader in quotes.  I particularly enjoy the way he demolishes sloppy thinking -- you'll never look at the &quot;Blue America vs. Red America&quot; cliche the same way again after reading this book.<br />He also thinks the Democratic Party committed a huge blunder when it took traditional economic issues off the table and became, as he calls it &quot;the *other* pro-business party.&quot;  Once you take economic issues off the table, it's all about culture, and whether it's a true story or a false one, conservatives simply have a much more compelling story to tell about cultural issues, as Frank lays out in great detail.<br />If you're on the left, next time you feel compelled to buy an Al Franken style &quot;angry liberal&quot; book, or another book about the Bush family's shady past, buy this one instead and learn something new.  And if you're part of the right-wing backlash, dare to read what Frank says and see if you agree with him.	2004-06-12
US	53094239	R2G88CVRJQFND6	0684871599	110011583	Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	1	13	17	N	Y	A Boring and Uninformative Book	What these three authors are up to here is known in the trade as \\"selling your notes.\\"  This is a poorly organized, poorly written and boring account of a fascinating subject.  Do not waste your money or your time.<br /><br />And yes, it's *that* Judith Miller.	2004-04-06
US	53094239	R35RMMFOE3BIWY	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the Best Things I've Ever Read	I'm not a regular fantasy reader, but decided to give the &quot;Fire and Ice&quot; series a try because I enjoyed Martin's &quot;Armageddon Rag&quot; so much many years ago (that book might best be described as a mystery with supernatural overtones).<br />I ended up reading all three extant volumes of Fire and Ice in a two-week marathon and may Martin and I both live long and prosper so I can read the entire series.<br />One of the things I liked about the series is precisely that there are few pure heroes or pure villains.  There are characters who are very nasty pieces of work and others who are quite good-hearted, but every one of them emerges as a person driven by complex motivations -- greed, vanity, bravery, duty, naievete, virtue, cowardice, friendship, lust, sadism, revenge...  There's not a cardboard cut-out among them, even down to the smallest bit player.  The only pure villains are a few, like the boy king Joffrey, who are sociopaths.<br />In fact, some of the most fascinating characters are those you feel you should hate but can't (Tyrion Lannister, for example).<br />Martin has also done an incredible job of realizing a world for Fire and Ice.  With the exception of the odd dragon or magic spell, nothing that happens in his world is much stranger than things that actually did happen in days of old when nights were bold.  In a funny way, it brought history alive for me in a way that no non-fiction book ever has.  And after you absorb how unpredictable and difficult life was for ordinary people while the rich and powerful played &quot;The Game of Thrones,&quot; the next obvious thought is &quot;and how much have things really changed?&quot;<br />Forget genre, this series is one of the best things I've ever read, period.	2004-04-03
US	53094239	R3ODO60BFP8PKV	0471435937	896686789	Kmart's Ten Deadly Sins: How Incompetence Tainted an American Icon	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Book with Some Frustrating Shortcomings	Marcia Turner does an excellent job of laying out what KMart has done wrong over the years and builds a very convincing case, citing mostly secondary sources such as retail trade journals.  The writing is clear and lively, but the &quot;10 Deadly Sins&quot; idea is rather tentatively executed. Many chapters discuss multiple sins, and partly because the entire history of the company has to be addressed in each chapter there is a fair amount of repetition.<br />But for me, the most frustrating thing about the book is that it is entirely an outsider's perspective.  Turner does such an excellent job of documenting Kmart's persistent stupidity over many decades that at some point you want to hear from an insider to answer the question &quot;what could they have been thinking?&quot;<br />A particular strength of the book is laying out the competitive landscape of discount retailing.  One major unanswered question (which, granted, would be very difficult to answer) is how big a role pervasive corruption has played in Kmart's decline.  The conviction of a senior real estate executive for bribery indicates that self-dealing in the company may have gone back much further than the executives who put the company in bankruptcy.	2003-12-24
US	53094239	RJINSNZHFC8MN	1585422037	54677011	Voyages of the Pyramid Builders: The True Origins of the Pyramids from Lost Egypt to Ancient America	Books	4	22	26	N	Y	Absolutely Not Nonsense	At first glance, this book might be mistaken for &quot;Chariots of the Gods&quot; hokum -- it's about pyramids, it suggest prehistoric connections between widely scattered civilizations, and it has an entire chapter on planetary catastrophes.  However, this is a very serious effort.  Granted, it raises a lot more questions than it answers, and can be a little monotonous in spots.  But as a former geology major, I didn't spot any pseudo-science (which is not surprising, given that the primary author has a Ph.D. in Geology from Yale) and I found much food for thought.<br />Sure, if it turns out that the whole theory of cultural diffusion is wrong, (similarities in disparate civilizations are due to migration and interconnection rather than parallel developoment) this book will be little more than an amusing footnote in the history of science.  But then, plate tectonics was once a crackpot theory.  This is a serious book that deserves to be read.	2003-12-06
US	53094239	RBG38V1I25HL1	0195145623	901609135	Can Gun Control Work? (Studies in Crime and Public Policy)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	An Absolutely Fabulous and Fair-Minded Book	Over the last few years, I've read most of the books written on this subject, from Michael A. Bellesiles' &quot;Arming America&quot; to John Lott's &quot;More Guns, Less Crime.&quot;<br />&quot;Can Gun Control Work?&quot; stands head and shoulders above the rest.  First, Jacobs has carefully described the history of gun control in the United States (and for the most part, the book focuses on the US).  Second, he takes a careful look at what the problem actually is -- is it accidents? suicides? homicides?  Jacobs does a very rigorous (but not dry) job of explaining what the statistics actually show about gun violence -- poking some holes in commonly accepted myths from both sides of the debate.<br />Finally, I think he does a very good and pragmatic job of looking at what gun control measures may actually work.  Our national discussion about gun control is dominated by emotional outbursts about gun rights on the one hand and about gun risks on the other -- this book steers clear of emotion to examine what is really happening, and what we can really do about it.<br />Jacobs reaches conclusions that will annoy gun rights advocates (gun shows are impossible to police and should probably be banned outright) and conclusions that will annoy anti-gun activists (a ban on handguns would be just as impossible to enforce as our drug laws).  He calls 'em as he see 'em.<br />I would recommend this book to both pro and anti-gun readers without any reservation.	2003-11-21
US	53094239	R2DDENJIDXB4UE	1590710134	697004845	A Long December	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Good Read, But Was Rural Iowa Ever This Exiting?	I was an early fan of Harstad's series (he's a real-life lawman in NE Iowa), but he's facing the same problem as Archer Mayor, another real-life rural cop -- how in the heck do you write a series set in a place where, in real life, nothing much ever happens beyond domestic violence and drunk &amp; disorderly?<br />For the most part, Mayor has concentrated on local color and a drawing a fine and very accurate portrait of low-life milltown New England. His mayhem has mostly remained realistic -- crooked real estate developers, out-of-control drug dealers, etc. <br />Harstad, on the other hand, has opted for extra-crunchy police procedure (one volume even has a glossary of 10-codes) and an ever  escalating collection of improbable &quot;hell comes to Ioway&quot; scenarios.  I won't give away anything, but let's just say this one is very post-9/11.  I can't imagine how he'll top himself unless the next novel contains a Martian invasion.<br />The emphasis on bigger and better catastrophes has sorta moved the series halfway between police procedural and thriller.  I still like them just fine, and Harstad remains an excellent writer, but I kinda wish he'd stopped at the &quot;mysterious Satanic cult invades Iowa&quot; level of improbability.<br />Other than that, the series remains quite consistent, including the fact that each story finds office Houseman barely coming home to sleep, and that his wife is encountered largely through notes she leaves on the fridge.  The cast of continuing characters is still here, including &quot;George of the Bureau&quot; and the formidable dispatcher Sally, and Harstad still has a keen and funny eye for the absurdities of organizational politics.	2003-11-15
US	53094239	R9W9BC7O44AKH	B0000AZW7Q	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in Africa, 1942-1943, Volume One of the Liberation Trilogy	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Absolutely Stellar!	Even if you've read a lot about WW II, the North Africa campaign may be a bit of a blur.  We invaded after we realized that it was too early to invade France, there was some kind of disaster at Kasserine Pass, and then Rommel and our guys chased each other back and forth across the desert and eventually we did ok.  Until I came across this book, the whole subject made my eyes glaze over -- it all seemed like something of a sideshow before the &quot;real&quot; European war.<br />Atkinson has accomplished something really stellar -- he's placed the North African campaign in perspective and made its importance clear.  He's also done something quite unusual in terms of his narrative: explained the action partly in terms of what the actors knew and believed as it was actually happening.  This truly brings depth to the story.  It's not just &quot;Patton did x because he was impetuous and warlike.&quot;  You get Patton's thoughts on a particular action as reflected in a letter written to his wife on that very day.  <br />Atkinson also gives you a strong sense of how much all the Allied leaders -- both the top brass and leaders of combat units -- were still learning their trade in 1942.  The Eisenhower of TORCH was worlds away from the Eisenhower of D-Day.<br />What an incredible book.  I eagerly await the next two volumes.	2003-08-30
US	53094239	R177RLLEVVJXF2	1400050219	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Everyone Should Read This One	If you don't own a car or use any petroleum products and have no interest in the state of the U.S. economy or the functioning of our government, don't bother to read \\"Sleeping With the Devil.\\"  Otherwise, this is a book everyone should read.  <br />And believe me, I'm not suggesting a dismal experience.  Baer is a excellent, passionate, well-informed writer.  I'm not sure if \\"entertaining\\" is quite the right word for this often horrifying book, but this is a really great read.  I just picked it up a couple of hours ago, and I've already devoured almost half of it.<br />Baer's basic thesis is that the Saudi royal family are not exactly our pals and are themselves in an extremely precarious position from which they are bound to fall sooner or later (probably sooner), with great consequences for America and the world economy.  Baer takes particular delight in laying out the web of self-interest, money and corruption which has led America's political, business and journalistic elite to see and speak no evil where Saudi Arabia is concerned.  <br />Baer certainly cannot assemble the entire picture, but his evidence and arguments are extremely persuasive.  Here's hoping he's dead wrong and that the book is not in the least prophetic.<br />I should probably also note that this is a book worth reading whether you consider yourself to be on the left on the right or somewhere in the middle.  Ultimately, this is not a book about ideology, it's a book about money and power.	2003-07-31
US	53094239	R10NES5GEB6YZL	0394570502	222715730	Sixties People	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	The Best Introduction to the Culture of the Sixties	I lived through the Sixties (on the younger end) and have read many many books on the subject.  This is far and away the best book introduction to the cultural aspects of the 60s.  Particularly valuable is the broad focus -- this is not just another re-hash (as it were) of the hippy stereotype.  The book talks about hippies and their more political brethren the \\"freaks,\\" but it also includes chapters on early 60s types -- surfers, party animals, and the folks with big hair and leather jackets who bought (and inspired) all those girl group records.<br />Highly recommended both for those who were there and those who weren't.  It's entertainingly written too, and has lots of great pictures.  Not a replacement for more serious scholarly tomes if you want to go in that direction later, but it's a great map of the territory.	2003-07-31
US	53094239	R3LJ4YCSCY3R9P	1585422274	78403350	Saying Yes: In Defense of Drug Use	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	Very Well Done	There is nothing not to like about Jacob Sullum's &quot;Saying Yes.&quot; It's gracefully written, scientifically accurate and completely sensible.  I guess I'm a little more pessimistic that other reviewers about the affect it will have on the drug policy debate -- as Sullum points out only too well, truth, common sense, and pragmatism have never had much to do with drug policy in the United States.  If nothing else, this book will at least re-assure future generations that not everyone in our era was nuts.<br />Readers who have read a great deal on this subject will find much here that's familiar, but it's nice to have it all in one place and footnoted.  And while I have quite a library of books on alcohol and other drugs, I did find a considerable amount of new info and thought-provoking angles.  A very nice job.	2003-07-19
US	53094239	R16IT7X9DBMMT8	1582341761	871434661	The Outfit: The Role of Chicago's Underworld in the Shaping of Modern America	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Sets a New Standard	This is about as good as it gets in terms of criminal history.  I agree with others that some of the secondary sources Russo cites are questionable (my eyes crossed when he cited the discredited \\"Last Testament of Lucky Luciano\\"), but Russo does an excellent job of placing the Outfit in historical context and telling their tale.  Much previous writing on American organized crime has focused on the fractious and colorful New York families, but after you do a certain amount of reading, it begins to occur to you that the guys in Chicago seem to have a finger in every pie, but (after Capone) a knack for staying out of the papers.  Russo makes the argument that the Outfit was actually much more powerful and cohesive than the New York families and had a much greater influence on American politics and culture. He convinced me.<br />I am also convinced by Russo's basic thesis -- that \\"upperworld crime\\" utterly dwarfs underworld crime, both in terms of dollar volume and its affect on society.  For example, it would take a thousand Outfits a thousand years to steal as much money as Wall Street did during the dotcom bubble.<br />Thorough, well-organized, but never dry, this book will probably stand as the best work on the subject for many years to come.	2003-05-26
US	53094239	R3XQVA3UPSYG8	0743213661	563897796	Have You Seen Dawn?	Books	3	4	5	N	N	I'm Somewhere in the Middle	I'll land somewhere in the middle on this one.  After all, I did finish it and I enjoyed reading it.  I agree with one of the reviews below that the novel has the feel of being written by a very young person -- it's almost like &quot;Young Adult plus&quot; (perhaps I'm outside the age range of the intended audience?).  While the portrait of small-town life is reasonably well done, the characters are rather flat (to a degree occasionally verging on the ridiculous).  I found the plot easily guessable.  Saylor tries to overcome this by ladling on buckets of red herrings, but experienced mystery readers are not going to find this one much of a mystery.  Why did I enjoy the book?  The writing style is clean and literate, the protagonist is sympathetic and her sense of nostalgia over her small-town roots is nicely drawn.  Stacked up against formulaic beach/airplane novels, the book comes off fairly well.  Compared to more competent mystery fiction, well...  but Saylor is a talented writer.  I'll be interested to see what he's up to in the future.	2003-04-21
US	53094239	R1MDEG5AWRNEWU	0375727116	439703682	Tough Luck	Books	1	6	16	N	N	An Utter Waste of the Author's Obvious Talent	Jason Starr has fiction chops to die for.  Characters are beautifully drawn.  The setttings are wonderfully depicted.  But this thing is an awful mess.  We start with a character who is not exactly a rocket scientist, but bedrock decent and hard working.  Over the course of the book, he becomes a) a complete moron, b) a stalker, c) a burglar, d) a guy who steals from his employer.  In other words, his basic character as a human being changes.  If Starr was trying for humor, well, it's not funny.  In fact, the overall feeling this book left me with was depression.  I usually donate my used paperbacks to the local library.  This one I'm going to throw out.  I wouldn't want anyone else to have to read it.	2003-03-22
US	53094239	R108QY3VNSJPQE	0521474477	611762782	The End of the Dinosaurs: Chicxulub Crater and Mass Extinctions	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Little Book	This great little book is far more than promised by the title -- although I must admit that I grabbed it because of the title, so I can hardly fault them for picking something dinosaur oriented.<br />Yes, we get a history of the scientific controversies leading to the widespread acceptance of a meteorite/comet strike as the cause of the extinction of the dinosaurs.  But there's more: the book reviews the evidence for associations between bolide strikes and all of the major mass extinctions in earth history.  In prose that's clear, but not dry, Frankel reveals what we know -- and don't know -- about these events.  Good illustrations and intelligent speculation round out a first-rate and quite up-to-date overview of a rapidly developing field.  <br />One subtext of Frankel's work is how scientist adapt (and in some cases don't adapt) to new evidence.  For example, the Siberian Tunguska explosion of 1908 is now widely acknowledged to have been a strike from a comet fragment, but only 20 or so years ago you could read about it primarily in UFO magazines and &quot;mysteries of the unexplained&quot; books.  Because science lacked an explanation for it, the explosion was largely ignored.<br />I second the recommendation of &quot;The Eternal Frontier.&quot;	2002-05-26
US	53094239	R29SKQR0DY9YU1	3822811580	436665152	All-American Ads of the 50s	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Great Series	This is an absolutely fabulous series -- I eagerly anticipate the remaining volumes.  Certainly they are excellent and enjoyable volumes for people interested in American design and popular culture, but I'm also finding them a great way to start teaching my young daughter about American history.  Looking at 1950s liquor ads led to a discussion of Prohibition, which led to a discussion of gangster movies, and why everything in the 50s was trying to look like a rocket while consumer items of the 30s and 40s were rounded and &quot;streamlined...&quot; and so on.<br />It's a great way for children to realize that clues about history (and the hidden agendas of marketers, for that matter) are everywhere around us, and that while wars and the deeds of the great are part of history, there's more to it than that.	2002-05-25
US	53094239	RFUSN58Q4WN71	0871138387	427150403	LAbyrinth: A Detective Investigates the Murders of Tupac Shakur and Notorious B.I.G. The Implication of Death Row Records' Suge Knight and the Origins of the Los Angeles Police Scandal	Books	5	30	33	N	N	An Excellent Book	I'm not sure why I grabbed this book -- at best I'm a very casual rap fan, being more of an \\"old school\\" type (very old school).  Perhaps it was my interest in the history of police corruption in Los Angeles, which goes back to the days of Raymond Chandler and beyond.<br />In any case, this is an excellent read.  Sullivan takes a very complex tale with many players and makes it easy to follow.  The writing is clear, crisp and clean.  His logical analysis of the controversies in the investigation seem very sound.  This is not a book that will titillate people with a voyeuristic look at the rap lifestyle.  He keeps the focus very tightly on the murder investigations and the connections between rogue LAPD officers and Death Row records.<br />I guess I have only two quibbles.  First, the book needs an index.  We get a timeline (very helpful), a cast of characters, even recommended further readings.  But an index would be nice.  Second, and this is not Sullivan's fault in anyway, this is a very grim tale.  Evil goes unpunished, the truth is suppressed by authorities and good guys are in short supply.<br />People who lived through the L.A. police corruption scandals of earlier eras would find much to recognize in this tale.	2002-04-22
US	53094239	R47JIW5DDGPEH	0716736519	937561877	The Earth in Turmoil: Earthquakes, Volcanoes, and Their Impact on Humankind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Book with Strong Focus on Southern California	One of the things that makes this book stand out is that its geology is up-to-date and detailed.  I was a geology major back in the late 70s and while I decided not to go on in the field, I've kept up reasonably well.  I learned a great deal of new info from this book, including the only coherent explanation I've ever read of the &quot;hot spots&quot; responsible for volcanoes like those in Hawaii.<br />The basic format of the book is of a west-to-east journey through the U.S., although Southern California (where co-author Sieh lives and works) gets by far the most detailed coverage.  We get some vivid anecdotal accounts of earthquakes and eruptions, but the overall focus is more &quot;what we think we know and why we think we know it.&quot;  As another reviewer said, you must be interested enough in the subject to follow some reasonably complex logical arguments.<br />The color photos in the book are a valuable addition -- among other things, they made me realize that the oddly ramp-like block just south of Sunset Boulevard in LA is actually the scarp of the fault that has raised the Hollywood Hills.<br />The writing style is clear and approachable.  All in all a very enjoyable read for folks with a serious interest in Earth Science.	2002-04-22
US	53094239	R3J8MW2LYSHP9X	0375758259	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Nearly Perfect Piece of Journalism	This is truly an excellent book.  The tale of LCTM is an important one for a number of reasons -- not least because the bailout orchestrated by the Federal Reserve was a major milestone in the Fed's ill-advised tendency to protect speculators from the consequences of their own actions.<br />The details of what LCTM did are extraordinarily complex, but Lowenstein does an excellent job of giving the reader enough information to understand the tale without getting bogged down in trying to explain the details of swap spread derivatives.  You don't need to be an Wall Street whiz to understand this book, although it would probably help if you at least read the financial pages now and then.<br />Lowenstein also excels at telling the human tale -- he makes the arrogance and greed of the LCTM players on their way up very real, and conveys their bafflement and confusion on the way down.<br />What remains astouding about the entire story, as Lowenstein points out, is that a group of people could be so intelligent and learned and yet make bonehead thinking errors that would be readily apparent to a C student in Econ 101.  In that sense, LCTM is a universal human story about the dangers of self-delusion and hubris.	2002-04-18
US	53094239	RE2LNW3ZCUEJC	052177599X	400689703	Tsunami: The Underrated Hazard	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	A Good Read on the Subject But Fairly Technical	In a lot of science books written for the general reader, the complaint is that the material is sensationalistic and over-simplified.  Edward Bryant almost errs in the other direction.  His evidence that very large Tsunami have played a key role in shaping many coastal regions is extremely well-presented and will contain lots of new information for even dedicated followers of Earth Science news.<br />On the other hand, while reading information about landscapes re-arranged by truly massive &quot;mega-tsunami,&quot; one sometimes longs for livelier prose.  The book may also be something of a slog now and then for people with no background in Earth Science.<br />I would recommend this book highly to anyone with a serious interest in the subject, and certainly to anyone who needs to consider tsunami from a policy-making point of view.	2002-04-18
US	53094239	R1FA9PBDOQ1JDP	0970313012	843704481	Illegal Drugs: A Complete Guide to Their History, Chemistry, Use and Abuse (The Sagebrush Medical Guides)	Books	5	53	55	N	Y	Accurate, But Sometimes a Little Annoying	I'm not going to throw rocks at this book, because there is an incredible dearth of good information on this subject, and in the information in this book is excellent.  But when Gahlinger says \\"complete,\\" he is not kidding.  This is a great resource for the sophisticated student of the subject, with history, sociology and legal issues as well as medical info, and lots of coverage of obscure drugs.  For people whose interest in the subject which is either more casual or practical (e.g. \\"Is this stuff dangerous?\\" or \\"What's my kid getting into?\\") the book may be a little overwhelming.<br />I cannot stress how thoroughly superior this book is to Andrew Weil's \\"From Chocolate to Morphine.\\"	2002-03-01
US	53094239	R2AI4EVKIW12HS	0066212502	241425143	Blowback	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Truly Superior Thriller	This is probably the best thriller I've read in the last 2 or 3 years.  The characters are believable, the action is dizzyingly fast, and the plot is not an insult to one's intelligence.  In fact, quite the opposite -- the book actually gets you to think about some big issues, not least the danger of having an utterly amoral person in the White House.  I also found Fullilove's protagonist refreshing. Yes he's macho, handsome, and brilliant -- the usual thriller virtues.  But he also has flaws, faults and fears.  There is none of the cartoony quality that you find in so many best-selling thrillers.<br />Fullilove also does an excellent job with the Washington background (something tells me he must have had some career connection with the world of intelligence, but if not he's certainly done his homework).  I also liked the fact that the books various crises and disasters grow out of the failures and miscalculations of ordinary people -- just like in real life.  Truly superior!	2002-02-21
US	53094239	R19FVOLSUXIBAF	031226240X	407412807	Tom and Huck Don't Live Here Anymore	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Thought Provoking and a Good Read	I have never lived in Hannibal, but I've visited many times and have family roots in the Mississippi Valley.<br />I thought this book was first-rate, combining sociological analysis, personal memories and interviews naturally and effectively.  I don't really fault Powers for not proposing solutions to the problems he documents -- I can't think of any myself.<br />As Powers perceptively points out, the earlier pattern of small-town life, rich in community spirit, was itself dependent on economic conditions.  An economy based on railroads, small-scale manufacturing, agriculture, and farm-to-market trade reinforced the sort of &quot;Main Street USA&quot; culture portrayed by Twain and (in ghastly parody) in various theme parks starting with Disneyland.  Families in those days were strong not because people were better than we are now, but because in such an economy -- with child labor in both field and factory -- cooperation paid off.<br />The perfect economic human of the 19th or early 20th century was rooted to place, connected to local institutions, and enmeshed in a web of economic and social relationships with people s/he new face to face.  The perfect economic human of our time is cruising an anonymous highway, looking for that same great burger from coast-to-coast. Connections to place, to the neighbors...?  All that is now swimming against the tide in an economy which makes us into mindless consumers before our milk teeth fall out.<br />Definitely worth reading if you are interested in issues of community in America or in the culture of the Mississippi Valley.	2001-12-29
US	53094239	R3HXF6942SONIL	1893115828	624034558	Advanced Transact-SQL for SQL Server 2000	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Very Useful Intermediate Book	In reading through the many reviews on this book, I notice that we have a bi-modal distribution.  Intermediate users love it, and truly advanced users give it low marks.<br />The sub-title on the back cover is a better clue to what this book is about than the title -- &quot;Practical T-SQL Solutions to Common Problems.&quot;<br />If you've sorted through your initial newbie issues about SQL and SQL Server and want to take your skills to the next level, you will find this book extremely worthwhile.  If you're already an advanced T-SQL type looking for deeper insights, you'll probably be dissapointed.	2001-11-15
US	53094239	R3GDC4EMYZXJE9	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Interesting Book, But Slapped Together Quickly	Needless to say, this book covers a topic that's suddenly timely in a way its authors couldn't possibly have imagined while they were writing it.<br />On balance, an interesting and quick read.  I felt the book suffered from a lack of editing, though.  It reads like what it is -- a collection of contributions from several authors, no doubt drawing heavily on previously published work.<br />This is a long way from being a bad book, but especially in view of 9/11, this important topic deserves a more detailed and in-depth approach.	2001-11-15
US	53094239	R1QCXYRE4O9EBX	0201615762	553912327	The Guru's Guide to Transact-SQL	Books	5	23	26	N	Y	An Extraordinarily Useful Book	What I appreciated most about this book was the way the author pushes the reader to go beyond simply &quot;knowing the material.&quot; This is a book that will help you understand the &quot;whys&quot; behind the details.  Yes, there are plenty of &quot;tips and tricks&quot; here, as you would expect from the title, but there's a lot more than that.  This is a perfect &quot;next step&quot; book if you're an intermediate user of SQL looking to develop some real expertise and stand out from your peers.<br />One one level, this book made me more confident and skilled at Transact-SQL, but it also made me feel like I was beginning to approach SQL as a programmer, not simply as a guy who had memorized a bunch of syntax and keywords.  And while the info here is specific to Transact-SQL, the thinking skills will carry over to any platform you work on.<br />As a final note, the chapter on NULLs is worth the entire price of the book all by itself.	2001-10-01
US	53094239	RQJ11EI78LIW8	039305022X	856841096	Base Instincts: What Makes Killers Kill?	Books	5	26	30	N	Y	A Very Fine Effort	The point of this fairly slim volume is to convince the reader that many (perhaps the vast majority) of our most dangerous criminals have neurologic impairments, and that brain dysfunction, along with child abuse and paranoid thinking, is at the heart of much violent behavior.  This is not an entirely new message, but it is one Pincus approaches with a great deal of authority -- he's a professor of Neurology at Georgetown, was formerly at Yale and has studied dozens of death row prisoners along with his colleague Dorothy Ortnow Lewis.<br />Dr. Pincus clearly decided not to risk alienating readers with scientific terminology or complex explanations of brain physiology.  The book follows the familiar &quot;casebook&quot; true crime format used by various ex-FBI profilers, coroners, and cops.  Most chapters focus on a particular criminal Pincus had dealings with (many of them in his role as an expert witness) and what that criminal's life story shows about the origins of homicidal violence.<br />The coversational writing style (and oddly cheery alliterative chapter titles) stand in contrast to the horrific nature of much of the material.  The crime scene details will be familiar to any reasonably hardened reader in the literature. What really stood out for me was the descriptions of childhood abuse endured by many of the perpetrators Pincus has studied.  As a former inner-city teacher, I taught kids from pretty screwed up homes, and had some friends from abusive families while growing up.  But the stories Pincus recounts (corroborated by siblings and others) remind us that there is almost no downward limit to the depths of human depravity.<br />What's rather odd about all the better works in the study of violence and homicide is the sense that this field is under-funded, under-appreciated and obscure.  Pincus and other pioneers in the field have answered some important questions, but their work raises hundreds more.  If, say one percent of the money our government hasspent trying to prove that marijuana is dangerous were instead spent on studying the roots of violence, perhaps we'd have more answers.	2001-10-01
US	53094239	R2VRKLLEVI36KM	0520215680	363902245	Imperial San Francisco: Urban Power, Earthly Ruin (California Studies in Critical Human Geography)	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	More Than Just Good Local History	Brechin's acerbic and well-researched account of San Francisco's development and the attendant despoiliaton of its hinterlands will be amusing reading to anyone with a populist bent and an interest in San Francisco history.<br />But &quot;Imperial San Francisco&quot; is far more than good local history.  It's a book that wrestles with big ideas -- the poisonous and secretive power of economic elites, the cost of technology, and the way fortunes are built not by creating wealth but by shifting costs to others (including future generations).<br />There are no easy answers here.  This is not a book that inspires one with optimism about human nature or the human prospect.  And by connecting San Francisco's rise to power with that of other imperial cities in the past (most notably Rome), Brechin makes a strong case that &quot;t'was ever thus.&quot;<br />&quot;Imperial San Francisco&quot; is also well-written (although this isn't popular history, but the real deal).  And I feel compelled to add that in this day of specialization, careerism, and caution in historical writing it's a real pleasure to read such a wide-ranging and daring book.  Brechin also makes excellent use of both photos and illustrations and comes up with quotes so juicy they made me want to head for the archives and read the primary sources myself.	2001-06-17
US	53094239	R2QUTDKVFCU5YN	0879304758	53028261	All Music Guide to Country: The Experts' Guide to the Best Country Recordings	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good Effort	I'm a big fan of this series, which is prized among buffs for its reliable and informative album ratings.  This volume gets big points for unusually inclusive coverage, which makes sense for the &quot;big tent&quot; that is country music.  We get everything from rockabilly to country-oriented rock acts to straight-up honky tonk.  Also, you get good coverage of some fairly obscure artists (finally, Michael Hurley in a reference book!).<br />Complaints?  I've got a few.  The editing in this volume is not up to the series' usual standards.  Some of the biographical sketches are sloppily written and some artists seem to have been left out unintentially (for example, Area Code 615 is mentioned many times in the text, but doesn't get an entry).  Also, as long as I'm complaining, some of the decisions about who to include are a little loopy -- the Greatful Dead but not John Prine?  And music reference books go stale fast -- the latest entries in this one are from mid 1996, so a new edition is called for.<br />With all that said, I spent half the night reading through this one, promising myself that I'd go to sleep after I read just one more entry... If you're anything more than the most casual country fan, you need this book.	2001-06-10
US	53094239	ROZ4M8SFT2HMV	0789719746	190355808	Special Edition Using SQL	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Resource for More Advanced SQL Questions	When I was doing sorta minimal SQL and mostly concentrating on programming, database administration and debugging, the fairly sketchy SQL books I happened to buy first were good enough. <br />But recently I've started doing lots of web-database development, writing much more complex queries and having to be a lot smarter about SQL. This book has been quite helpful.  Yes, there are a lot of words here, and yes, I would have trimmed a couple of chapters.  But the book explains a great deal of complex info and is written very clearly.  It's clear that the author is tied to real world -- I gather from his bio that he's a web application developer in real life. Wish I'd bought the book earlier. <br />When I want to quickly remind myself of some common bit of syntax, there are other books where I can find the info quicker.  But when I have those &quot;gee, how am I going to do *this*?&quot; moments, this is the book I grab.	2001-06-01
US	53094239	R1XXJST7ZXHH6W	0394739698	70651256	A Field Guide to American Houses	Books	5	112	113	N	N	An Essential Reference	I worked for a few years as an architectural historian doing historic building surveys and wore out at least 2 or 3 copies of this wonderful book.  There are lots of &quot;pocket guides&quot; to architectural styles which will tell you that yup, that thing with a turret is a Victorian.  But this book is a priceless resource for anyone with more than a casual interest in American domestic architecture.  The McAlesters focus on ordinary houses (rather than rare architectural landmarks) and cover everything from dog-run log cabins to Greek Revival cottages to 1950s ranch houes.  The writing is clear, the level of detail is just right, and the book has hundreds of black and white photos and illustrations.<br />I learned about domestic architecture to make a living, but even 20 years later still enjoy it as a hobby.  If you're a professional in the field, this book is essential.  But I would strongly recommend it to amateur enthusiasts as well.  Once you learn to recognize housing types, every drive becomes a history lesson.	2001-05-28
US	53094239	R2SWDMP8ZPOBUF	006090769X	803996624	The Politics of War	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Great Bit of Contrarian History	This book is most provocative in its treatment of the generally revered Woodrow Wilson and the story of how (according to Karp) he cynically engineered our entry into WW I, motivated by Anglophilia and a messianic (and in Karp's view delusional) conviction that he could bring a new era of peace and justice to the world.<br />A number of books have made similar allegations about FDR and our entry into WW II, but at the end of the day, who cares?  Does anyone really think the world would be a better place if the U.S. had stayed out of World War II?<br />WW I was quite a different kettle of fish, as Karp points out.  It was not in any way clear that the U.S. had something to gain from involving itself in a sordid struggle in which neither side held the moral high ground.  And Karp argues rather convincingly that Wilson was played for a fool -- he tipped the balance to Britain's Lloyd George and France's Clemenceau, only to see these enormously cynical and skillful politicians torpedo his &quot;just peace&quot; in favor of viciously punitive terms which ultimately led to the rise of Adolph Hitler.<br />Karp also discusses Wilson's suppression of free speech and his aggressive use of propaganda in favor of the war effort.<br />Karp was a frequent contributor to Harper's magazine who unfortunately died quite young a number of years ago.  This little-known book should be read by anyone interested in America in the WW I era and in the development of modern American political culture.  It's also worth studying if you want to understand better why U.S. public opinion was so resolutely isolationist up until the attack on Pearl Harbor.  Wilson got his war, but the experience left a very bad taste in the mouth of the American public.	2001-05-28
US	53094239	R3T2SZYH0NIRBW	0962832413	235671057	World War II Sites in the United States: A Tour Guide and Directory	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Incredible Labor of Love	Every time I pick up this book, I just marvel at the amount of information Richard Osborne has compiled.  There are thousands and thousands of entries, not just on well-known bases but on everything from German P.O.W. camps to ammunition plants.  Many of the entries have pictures (both historic and modern) and the writing is concise and clear.  The book is organized state-by-state, which makes it a great travelling companion.<br />Needless to say, this is a special-purpose book for extreme WW II buffs and historians, but if someone who fits one of those descriptions is on your gift list, they will be very appreciative.	2001-05-27
US	53094239	R2IXLHCJJT660E	0395911524	331226870	From Chocolate to Morphine: Everything You Need to Know About Mind-Altering Drugs	Books	1	52	67	N	N	For Entertainment Value Only	This outdated work seems dedicated above all to showing off the cleverness of the primary author (now a famous New Age health guru). It is packed full of arcane trivia on drugs ranging from yopo snuff to toad venom but generally fails to deliver the information that one would need to make rational decisions about substance use. <br />To be fair, the book is a fun read and full of neat photos and illustrations. But what it's not is a good guide to intoxicating drugs. In particular, the health and neurological effects of numerous drugs are given far too little attention. For example, the section on inhaling gasoline (!) mentions that users should be sure to get plenty of fresh air afterwards and should take care not to inhale while driving (!!!) but does not mention that inhalants cause brain damage and are carcinogenic.<br />As a long-time opponent of \\"the War on Some Drugs,\\" I find this book embarrassing. \\"Illegal Drugs: A Complete Guide to Their History, Chemistry, Use and Abuse\\" by Paul M. Gahlinger MD is far superior to this book as a source of info, albeit less clever and fun.	2001-05-27
US	53094239	R1QLKBFABLXQ8L	0060188804	657007054	In the Footsteps of Mr. Kurtz: Living on the Brink of Disaster in Mobutu's Congo	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Nuanced View of a Weird Situation	This book is neither fish nor fowl, and that's one of the things I liked best about it.  <br />You do, as another reviewer said, get a &quot;street-urchin's view&quot; of Zaire, but you also get a brief examination of the country's colonial history, talks with retired spies, and a look at Mobotu's lifestyle, ideology and financial manipulations.  Wrong also examines what Belgium does (and does not) remember about their sole colonial adventure and places the ideological struggles in Zaire in the context of Cold War geopolitics.  We also get a keen portrait of the class that made their fortunes as a result of Mobutu's kleptocracy, the wonderfully named &quot;Big Vegetables,&quot; who even as I write this live in fabulous luxury (albeit in exile).<br />&quot;In the Footsteps&quot; is what you would expect if you met a very bright friend who had spent many years in Zaire and said &quot;tell me everything you can about what it's like!&quot;  Nicely written too.  A first-rate effort.	2001-05-24
US	53094239	R2SR4ZQ7U6DEDP	0805056688	260745463	Hungry Ghosts: Mao's Secret Famine (Holt Paperback)	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Nice Job, Excellent Read	I found this book well-written, well-organized, and moving.  It's interesting to see how many Chinese readers consider it ethnocentric and anti-Chinese.  I didn't take it that way at all -- Mao's sort of madness is all-too-universal in human history, and the story left me with a sense of great admiration for the Chinese people who somehow suffered through this period.  Becker is also very careful to point out that the real roots of the disaster were not in China but in Mao's enthusiasm for actions of Stalin and the writings of Marx.<br />And if the portions on Mao sometimes read like a bio of Idi Amin, well, I'd consider that appropriate.  He was a murderous, vainglorious sociopath.  The fact that he was right about the terrible crimes of the Western powers against China neither changes nor justifies a thing.  <br />Anyway, a very nicely written and fascinating account that left me wanting to learn more about both ancient and modern Chinese history.	2001-04-20
US	53094239	R2TVB3Q173HHSP	0802116868	186377687	Down the Highway: The Life of Bob Dylan	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Finally, a Grown-up Biography of Dylan	This one is definitely worth buying for anyone with a serious interest in Dylan's life and music.  Sounes is clearly an admirer of Dylan's art, but as other reviewers have noted, not an obsessed Dylanologist.  I have read all of the Dylan bios, and this one is far and away the best for those who want to know the man and his music, but aren't obsessed with picking apart every line of his songs (or his garbage).<br />Sounes talked to everyone who would talk (and he must either be the world's nicest guy or the most persistent, because almost everyone talked except Dylan himself and his former wife Sara).  He also used documentary evidence to pin down things like marriages, real estate transactions, etc.   The portrait of Dylan that emerges is less shrouded in mystery, but no less amazing.  We get very clear-headed assessments of controversies like the motorcycle accident and also a good deal of info about how Dylan's music was recorded.  Sounes also does a good job of placing the various characters in Dylan's life in perspective, from the members of the Band to the Beat poets to his NYC cronies from the folk scene.<br />Very nicely done, all of it.  I wondered how Sounes would handle Dylan's later years, which have consisted of comebacks and long fallow periods.  Basically, he handles it like a real biographer -- he tells the whole tale, up to now.  The portrait of Dylan that emerges is not unlike that of many other fanatically driven artists -- eccentric, sometimes quite nasty to friends, family and fellow musicians, but above all dedicated to his art.	2001-04-12
US	53094239	R22DL7S3LXAPPW	0446608874	490808402	Occam's Razor (Joe Gunther Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Read, Great Sense of Place	In a former life (as an architectural historian, of all things), I spent a lot of time on the same mean streets of Southern New England as Joe Gunther (albeit with a clipboard and a camera instead of a badge and a gun).  Mayor's books are really notable for their sense of place -- I can call up clear pictures of his over-grown millyards and sagging tenements every time I read one of his books.<br />Mayor gets the people right too.  Even though his is a cop's-eye view, the villians are not simply generic &quot;bad guys.&quot;  They are individuals, with individual strengths, weakenesses and even talents.<br />Mayor's books are procedurals with lots of procedure (he's a real-life Vermont constable) and now and then I lose track of a pawn or two in the bureaucratic chess game just because there are so many of them.  But overall, an incredibly solid and admirable series.	2001-01-29
US	53094239	R14ZIECPOMJGT	0814719279	292258181	The White Death: A History of Tuberculosis	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Best Work on the Subject	There have been some reasonably satisfying works written on the cultural aspects of tuberculosis, and others on the scientific struggle to understand and control the disease.  What makes this work unusually rewarding is that Dormandy (a consultant pathologist and medical writer) possesses the ability and education to bring together TB's medical and cultural aspects.  He is equally comfortable discussing the influence of TB on the German Lied tradition and the interaction between the disease organism and the immune system.<br />The White Death is particularly strong on TB's influence on European high and Bohemian culture and on the stories of individual scientists and doctors involved in research and treatment.  Dormandy has a bit less patience for the bureaucratic history of public health and the political intrigues of academia, a feeling I share.  I particularly enjoyed the opinionated and informative footnotes.	2001-01-14
US	53094239	R3T5IG4EOTBBV6	0060194626	275282410	The Last Dive: A Father and Son's Fatal Descent into the Ocean's Depths	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Great Read	What made this book a real standout to me (as a non-diver) was the author's passionate familiarity with the challenges and dangers of the sport.  It would be easy for an outsider to write a story that painted technical divers as thrill-seeking nutcases or exploited the tale of the Rouse's for novelty and sensation.  As someone who survived an accident similar to that which killed the Rouses, Bernie Chowdhury brings a unique perspective to bear.<br />At times, the books veers off into technical discussions which may be of little interest to non-divers, but these excursions are brief (and will presumably be of much interest to divers).  I enjoyed the way Mr. Chowdhury painted the vivid characters involved in the sport, and the compassionate eye he turns on the foibles and political rivalries of the folks in the diving community.  This is not only an enjoyable book, but a wise one.	2000-12-08
US	53094239	R1L82PFNAZ9A09	0312208812	195546958	Volcano Cowboys: The Rocky Evolution of a Dangerous Science	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Really a Winner	This is a first-rate book -- interesting subject matter, exciting tales well told, and an extremely well-informed easy-to-grasp look at modern  volcanology.<br />The book follows the adventures of a dozen or so United  States Geological Survey geologists (the &quot;volcano cowboys&quot;) from  the late 1970s through the early 1990s, focusing on two major episodes --  the Mt. St. Helens eruption of 1980 and the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in  1991.<br />Mr. Thomspon, a long-time science correspondent for Time Magazine,  has really done it right.  The stories and travails of the researchers are  related in an interesting and intimate manner, but never mined for soap  opera or cheap drama.  The power of volcanic eruptions is made vividly  clear (I've been a lifelong geo buff, but I had no idea).  And Mr. Thompson  has a particuar flair for explaining complete scientific matters with such  grace and economy that you hardly notice that you're absorbing technical  material.  He knows precisely how much detail to leave out for the general  audience -- his perfect two-sentence description of why geologist study  road cuts (bottom of page 294) should be studied by every science  writer.<br />This is not a book that will satisfy someone looking for  extremely fine-grained detail on volcanology, but presumably if you are  looking for information on mathematical modelling of particle-size  interaction in pyroclastic flows, you'll go to the scientific literature.   As someone who knows a fair amount about geology, but didn't know much  about volcanoes, I was entirely satisfied.  My only gripe -- I would have  loved a list of further reading &amp; resources.  This book left me hungry  for more info!<br />I also thought it had just enough info on the political  context of volcanology -- the explanation of how and why the USGS fouled up  an attempt at eruption prediction near Mammoth Lakes, Californa was a great  little tale.  Once again, Thompson gives you enough, but not too much.This book is the work of an extremely talented writer with a great sense of  balance and control.	2000-08-06
US	53094239	R2OQJCW7NPSYZ1	0125761600	460063953	The Psychopathology of Crime: Criminal Behavior as a Clinical Disorder	Books	5	34	37	N	N	An Extremely Astute and Excellent Book	This book serves two purposes.  It is an excellent literature review of research into the biological, neurochemical, genetic, and behavioral roots of violence and  criminality.  It also advances a provocative hypothesis --  that criminality itself may meet the definition of a  psychopathology.<br />Even if you regard the latter as completely bunk (which  I don't), the book is invaluable as a literature review.  Not only is it  exhaustive, but Raine also comments on the literature with a keen logical  mind, i.e. &quot;Hungadunga and McCormick found effect X and attributed it  to factor Y, but an alternative explanation is provided by factor  Z.&quot;<br />I am a science writer, and my main field of expertise is the  medical aspects substance abuse treatment.  I learned plenty of new stuff  about the connections between alcoholism and criminal behavior in this book  and will consult it repeatedly the next time my partner and I sit down to  write/revise.<br />Quibbles?  Well, to some degree, the literature review  works at cross-purposes with his central hypothesis, since most of the  resarch he reviews was not undertaken with such a hypothesis in mind and  doesn't necessarily apply to it.  Also, you do have to pay close attention  re: whether Raine is, at any given point, talking about criminality in  general, violent criminality in particular, or ASP (antisocial personality)  specifically.  Structurally, it might have made more sense to write two  books: a critical review of the literature, and a second one advancing the  thesis that criminality is a psychopathogy.  I've faced similar dilemmas in  my own writing, and I probably would have made the same decision Raine did  -- cram it all in one book!<br />Bottom line: if you're interested enough in  this subject to have read to the bottom of this review, you need to buy  this book.	2000-07-03
US	53094239	R1B3TVY2RAYXII	0312961006	653774129	The Trickster	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Read with Some Beginner's Flaws	I read &quot;Furnace&quot; first and back-tracked to &quot;The Trickster.&quot;<br />I have no major complaints at all.  This is a very diverting and well-written supernatural thriller.  In comparison to  &quot;Furnace,&quot; I noted two things -- the characterization is weaker.   Gray obviously means for us to like the characters in Trickster, but she  doesn't pull it off quite as well.  Also, while &quot;Furnace&quot; was  notable for a near-zero rate of Scots/American English translation errors,  &quot;The Trickster&quot; is full of them.  For some reason, the Indians  speak like budding rap stars.  And a very proper young mother greets her  son with the salutation &quot;How's it hanging?&quot;	2000-06-26
US	53094239	R1M7S7YKQ4EGPS	0312204787	931377968	The Skull Mantra (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Definitely Worth Reading	I can understand the criticisms that some readers have expressed here.  It is true that minor characters in this book are thinly drawn (especially the Americans) and that the novel may seem a little meandering and slow-paced  to fans of traditional detective fiction.  But this is a great read, and  the meanderings provide a rich (and rather depressing) picture of life in  modern Tibet.  <br />The general approach reminds me of Tony Hillerman -- use  a mystery to entice the reader to learn more about a culture the author  thinks is important.  I've read interviews with Hillerman in which he  regrets how little ethnographic info he can put into his narratives without  bogging down the reader.  &quot;The Skull Mantra&quot; is the sort of novel  Hillerman might write about the Navajo if he decided to throw caution to  the winds and risk losing a few impatient readers.	2000-06-04
US	53094239	R3FXQDCDTLWZ5Y	156731175X	244989544	Old Jules: Portrait of a Pioneer	Books	5	41	43	N	N	One of the Most Extraordinary Books of Western Americana	We're buried in books about gunfighters and whores and trainrobbers and other quite atypical denizens of the Old West.  This issomething else again -- a story of an implacably determined European immigrant with a dream of re-making himself in the Sand Hills of western Nebraska.<br />The strength of Jules' dream is affecting, and so is the story of its collision with the bleak reality of midwestern frontier life.  One branch of my family were ranchers in Wyoming, and their descendants remain a tough lot.  Tough doesn't begin to describe Old Jules, and like most very tough people, he was more memorable and even admirable than likeable.<br />When it comes to the lives of women on the frontier, Willa Cather covered similar ground, but Sandoz is absolutely unsparing and is an extraordinarily talented writer.  This is one of those books that you'll think about for years.  I've bought and given away half a dozen copies over the years.	2000-05-06
US	53094239	RCN76XWOFQK6	0316897752	451518791	The Devil and Sonny Liston	Books	5	16	19	N	N	I'm Going to Vote with the &quot;Ayes&quot; on This One	Nick Tosches is not a conventional biographer, which may eitherdelight or disappoint you as you read this book.  <br />Depending on yourattitude about life, as an old friend of mine used to say.<br />I was delighted.  I didn't really set out to be a Tosches fan, but I realized a couple of years back that I own and have read every single book he's ever written.<br />The thread that runs through all of Tosches writing, fiction and non, is that &quot;the real history isn't in the books.&quot; Yes, a straightforward facts-and-dates biography would be a useful companion piece to this book, but Tosches would say that the real truth about Sonny Liston is the subterranean truth, the truth that didn't make it into print, or if it did, only as hints and rumors.<br />As for the charge that this book is just a re-hash of old magazine articles, clearly it is not.  Tosches tracked down and talked to a large number of people who knew Liston in various stages of his life, and obviously consulted primary sources as well.  The book is not a &quot;fight biography&quot; with gripping accounts of blows traded. It's more like a series of flashlight stabs into a nightmare.<br />Fourth-rate Mailer?  Nah, Tosches has little of Mailer's self-importance (God love him).  More like a Northeastern relative of music jouranlist Stanley Booth.  As he did in &quot;Dino,&quot; Tosches uses a novelist's technique to draw a portrait of a man who remains unknowable.  END	2000-05-05
US	53094239	R30L0XBKIIV3GI	0804118876	712047537	Guilty by Reason of Insanity: Inside the Minds of Killers	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A Standout in &quot;True Crime&quot;	This book makes an interesting matched pair with Richard Rhodes &quot;Why They Kill.&quot;<br />Rhodes examines the social roots of violence, and Dr. Lewis examines the neurologic roots of violence.  She pretty much convinced me (not that I needed much convincing) that we're executing a large number  of people whose elevators don't go to the top story.  My support for the  death penalty, already weak, was basically extinct by the time I finished  &quot;Guilty by Reason of Insanity.&quot;<br />Quibbles?  Sure.  Even in a  popular book, it would be nice to have a more detailed explanation of the  neuroscience underlying her work.  Lewis tosses in the occasional technical  explanation, but if you're at all interested in the medicine behind the  story, you're not going to be satisfied (I'm going to take a look at  &quot;Behavioral Neurology,&quot; written by her mentor and co-worker  Jonathan Pincus).  <br />Lewis is also forbidden (apparently for legal and/or  ethical reasons) for talking about some of her most famous patients,  including John Lennon's killer, and apparently Ted Bundy.  They get  mentioned, but not discussed in any detail.<br />It's also a woman's story  told in a woman's way.  I like women (in fact I'm married to one and have  one for a daughter), but there are times when the male reader will feel  like yelling &quot;I don't *care* how you felt about all this, just tell me  what happened!&quot; :-)	2000-05-03
US	53094239	R1V18TOEHF9KHU	0375402497	864507735	Why They Kill: The Discoveries of a Maverick Criminologist	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A Wonderful Book on a Strangely Overlooked Topic	It may sound odd to talk about violence as an &quot;overlooked topic,&quot; but as much as we talk about it and read about it and watch &quot;real life&quot; cop shows, Americans don't really do much thinking about the real causes of violence.  It's easier to enjoy the drama of good  vs. evil, to revel in our moral superiority to violent criminals while  taking a morbid interests in their deeds.<br />&quot;How can people do this  sort of thing?&quot; is the question every time there is another heinous  murder or massacre.<br />Well, the answer isn't really all that mysterious, if  you buy what Rhodes and Lonnie Athens say (and by and large, I do).  I find  Athens description of &quot;violentization&quot; compelling, and it matches  what I've personally experienced.  I've met plenty of nice people who  somehow survived horrible childhoods, but I've never met a horrible person  who had a nice childhood.<br />Rhodes is a wonderful writer, and his  presentation of Athens' life and theories is deft.<br />My only problem with  the book is that Rhodes and Athens focus so exclusively on socialization as  the root of violence that they overlook neurologic issues.  I actually got  to talk about this with Rhodes online, and he disagreed, but didn't  convince me.  Head injuries and alcohol intoxication clearly play a major  role in violent crime, and Athens seems so bent on awakening us to the  process of violentization that he downplays or ignores this.<br />In fact,  it's not an either/or -- people who are abused and brutalized as kids  usually get more than their share of knocks on the head and are more likely  than average to be from alcohol-abusing families.<br />But in a field where so  little light is shed, you don't have to have the entire puzzle to get my  vote. This is a terrific book, and should be read by anyone interested in  the subject.	2000-05-03
US	53094239	R31HTT7M4NTLF4	0440181488	279794668	Son	Books	5	79	80	N	N	One of Olsen's Best and a Truly Creepy Book	I've read almost everything Jack Olsen has written (he's one of the folks on my short &quot;I buy everything&quot; list), but even in Olsen's body of work, this is a standout.<br />Olsen has written about more heinous criminals -- after all, this guy is &quot;only&quot; a serial rapist.  But  &quot;Son&quot; really captures the creepy, narcissistic world of the  sociopath.  The level of detail and understanding is remarkable.  He  captures the essence of what is pathetic and frightening about these people  in a way few other writers have. I first read this book more than a decade  ago, but I still think about it.<br />If I were ever going to write a true  crime book myself, I'd sit down and read this one about 10 times before  getting started.	2000-05-03
US	53094239	R2LD3OC8G6OKBB	0312969031	442343154	Furnace	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Superior Supernatural Thriller	I've never done serious over-the-road trucking, but I've driven hundreds of thousands of miles around the U.S., fairly often pulling the kind of marathons that Josh Spiller and his trucker buddies do.  The American road  is a world of its own, and I've read few books that capture it.  Muriel  Gray really nails it, which is surprising given that she's from Scotland.   She mentions in the acknowledgements that she took a cross-country trip  with a trucker as part of her research.  She was obviously paying  attention.<br />As for the rest, the characters are believable, the plot moves  right along, and it's nice to read a good novel about America where the  characters are working class.  This is popular fiction, not serious  literature, but it's a darn good read.	2000-03-16
US	53094239	R1Z0TZPE53EKOQ	0060984112	464825385	Equation for Evil: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Rewarding Read	This one certainly doesn't deserve to be out of print.  Loosely based on the story of  Stockton, CA mass murderer Patrick Purdy, Equation for Evil is an excellent read.  Caputo must have done some reading in neuroscience  before writing the novel, but I got the feeling that he couldn't quite  figure out where to go with the book's central theme -- whether the roots  of evil are spiritual, biological, or both.  Much is made of this issue in  the first half of the novel, but it sort of fades out towards the end as  the book takes on the shape of a conventional thriller.  One of the book's  major characters, psychiatrist Leander Heartwood, rather unconvincingly  sheds his belief that the roots of violent behavior are in the brain and  decides that evil is &quot;a choice.&quot;  Perhaps so, but the choice to  open fire on a group of schoolchildren is not one that most of us would  remotely contemplate, leaving the question of what makes people like Purdy  tick hanging.<br />Having done some reading and writing about neuroscience  issues myself, I can empathize with Caputo's confusion, but research  conducted in the years since this book was published has drawn even  stronger connections between neurological abnormalities and violent  behavior.  I have spent a great deal of time thinking about the  implications of all this and remain somewhat baffled.  Seems like Mr.  Caputo had a similar reaction.	2000-02-15
US	53094239	R20BRG0AR9E1I5	0525480900	201247670	Texas Crude	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Absolutely Fabulous	Hope this one goes back in print some day, because I must have given away 10 copies of it, and am now  down to my last one.  The book is extremely funny, but that's only the beginning of its appeal.  A deep look into the  poetic (and occasionally moronic) soul of the Lone Star State.  Also, like  a lot of blue-collar and military lingo, some of the sayings herein express  eternal truths about the human condition.<br />I worked a blue-collar job in  Texas for a couple of years inbetween fabulous careers, and this book is  always fun to pick up as a reminder of what it was like.	2000-02-08
US	53094239	R3JI7PH4QCJY0I	0792274725	400559542	Lost Treasure Ships of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Real Pleasure	The American edition of this book was published by National Geographic, better known for consistency and a certain strange lack of personality than excellence, so I wasn't expecting much when I picked it up.  What a pleasant surprise!  Pickford is an excellent writer and world-class expert  on his subject, and, I suspect, would be a fascinating person to share a  pint or two with.  Each chapter focuses on a single treasure ship.   Pickford does a fine job of bringing out the irony, tragedy, and heroism of  both the sinkings and the salvage efforts.  I occasionally wished for more  detail on some of the salvage operations, but mainly I was just left hungry  for more -- I could have devoured 1,000 pages just as happily as 200.   Pickford obviously has an extraordinary private archive, and the  photographs add much to the text.    Note (from later): with respect to all the \\"unhelpful ratings\\" on this review, remind me not to insult the National Geographic again!  Actually, I'm quite fond of the National Geographic, both in its original ineffably strange incarnation as a bastion of happy half-dressed natives and its more recent makeover as a fine and relevant magazine which looks at the world quite forthrightly.	2000-02-04
US	53094239	R12GTZTRJ8SBUB	0375701001	106732878	Old Glory : A Voyage Down the Mississippi	Books	5	9	12	N	N	I've Read It At Least a Half a Dozen Times	This is my favorite book on the American landscape, and I've read plenty.  <br />It's interesting to see the polarization in the reviews here -- some folks find the book a joy, others think it's negative and disspiriting.   &quot;Old Glory&quot; is not a feel-good National Geographic travelogue,  but it's not a negative book either.  Mr. Raban treats the landscape and  the people he encounters with the affection of the melancholic.  He hopes  for the best, but knows that he won't always find it.  Raban captures the  bittersweet essence of the Mississippi Valley, the lonely and lost quality  of American life, and the strangeness of all once-vibrant human landscapes  bypassed by &quot;progress.&quot;  I am a real lover of the Mississippi,  and I consider this the best book ever written about it, including even  Twain's &quot;Life on the Mississippi.&quot;	1999-12-26
US	53094239	R1MSRT2K4TZ609	0399144005	67582553	8.4	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Ripping Good Yarn	The author could use a bit of work on his chops in terms of creating and sustaining narrative tension, but overall a ripping good yarn.  Warm,  believable characters and lots of interesting earthquake lore (I used to be  a geology major a million years ago, and at least the stuff I remember, he  got right).<br />I guess how much you will enjoy this book depends on whether  you concentrate on its flaws or its strengths.  I found it quite  entertaining.  My suspicion is that it would have taken a much longer book  to cover as much ground as this one does while fully developing all the  plot elements, and that unless you're Stephen King, you don't get to  publish 1100-page novels.	1999-11-24
US	53094239	R370M4OAO2LSQM	0440184940	544258900	Tapping the Source	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of the Better Thrillers I've Ever Read	Too bad this little gem has been o.p. for so long.  I read a lotta stuff in the hardboiled crime genre, and this is one of my all-time favorites. Great story, great characters, writing of true literary quality.	1999-09-28
US	53094239	R36S644HA2FVV3	0684838834	520743760	John Waynes America	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Disappointing	I like Gary Wills, and I don't write negative reviews on Amazon hardly a tall, but I thought this book was much less than it could have been.  While it contains a great deal of information, it is a poorly organized hodge  podge that can't decide whether it wants to be a biography of Wayne, a  detailed history of the making of his motion pictures, or a meditation on  pop culture.  <br />Some passages are terrific, but it should have either been  boiled down into a 60-80 page essay or had much more time and effort spent  on whipping the manuscript into shape.  It is probably strongest in its  description of the interplay of personalities, art, and business in the  making of Wayne's early films, and weakest in its description of how Wayne  as an icon affected mid-century America.	1999-05-11
US	53094239	R11BTK4NDEEJHR	0130796239	744201014	The Informix DBA Survival Guide (2nd Edition)	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Excellent Book	I'm a relative newbie to both relational databases and Informix.  By various twists of fate, I ended up being a dba in addition to other chores, and this book has indeed been a survival guide.  It's thorough, useful,  well-written and well-indexed (that last bit is absolutely essential in a  computer book).  Some of my other Informix books live on the shelf, this  one is always on my desk somewhere.	1999-02-24
US	53094239	RIIZ3XBFBAVBB	0913204161	101007850	The Dillinger Dossier	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Great Chunk of Americana	This book (an expanded and updated version of Nash's earlier &quot;Dillinger: Dead or Alive&quot;) tells a fascinating tale and (as is always the case with Nash) tells it well.  Was John Dillinger really gunned  down at the Biograph Theatre in July, 1934, or was the dead man a double  set up to take the fall?  At first, the idea that Dillinger might have  survived the Biograph shooting for several decades seems right up there  with alien abductions, but Nash makes an excellent case.  And with what we  now know about Hoover's FBI, the idea that the Bureau would have covered up  the debacle for decades to avoid criticism is hardly shocking -- in fact,  it's pretty hard to believe that Hoover would *not* have covered it  up.<br />Even if you don't buy Nash's central hypothesis, the book is a great  read, full of colorful period detail.  If you have any interest in  Dillinger or the early history of the FBI, buy it.	1999-02-18
US	53094239	R235V58QV9R9QU	0156002388	961834991	It Happened in the Catskills: An Oral History in the Words of Busboys, Bellhops, Guests, Proprietors, Comedians, Agents, and Others Who Lived It	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Absolutely First Rate	This is one of the best history books I've read in the past decade -- and I read a lot of history books.  I don't think I've ever read a better pop culture history about any subject.  And what's more, it's great great fun  -- I've probably read it cover to cover 3 or 4 times.  A thousand thanks  and a tip of the hat to Myrna &amp; Harvey Frommer!	1999-02-12
US	53094239	RP61SW26V1XI2	0136052967	448640441	Informix-Online Dynamic Server Handbook (Informix Press)	Books	1	0	0	N	Y	This one stays on the shelf	I usually write reviews only when I love a book, but I'll make an exception this time.  There aren't a whole lot of third-party Informix books, and my employer was paying, so I pretty much bought all the obvious  ones.  Joe Lumbley's &quot;Informix DBA Survival Guide&quot; is always on  my desk, Glenn Miller's &quot;Informix Basics&quot; is handy if I have a  basic question, and Elizabeth Suto's &quot;Informix Performance  Tuning&quot; is invaluable (it's actually not a bad one to read first  because the explanations of the architecture and key concepts are so  concise and clear).  But this one lives on the shelf.  It's way shorter  than it looks (big type font), and whatever I need to know about is usually  not in the index.<br />I hate to criticize authors because I are one, and I  know how much effort goes into a book, but this one just doesn't do it for  me.	1999-02-04
US	53094239	R1QR5729W6HP7A	0132392372	817526980	Informix Performance Tuning	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Extremely Clear and Useful	As an Informix novice, I've learned a great deal by plowing through the official documentation, but Suto's book really allowed me to leap forward by putting things in context and giving clear rules of thumb for a variety  of configuration and performance issues.  I've also written technical  documentation in another field, and boy howdy, this is a good job of  writing -- it's really a pleasure to read.	1999-01-14
US	53094239	R1NCGRFH1CVWSS	0764300725	447862409	America's Hundred Thousand: U.S. Production Fighters of World War II (Schiffer Military/Aviation History)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Absolutely Wonderful!	I would have to agree with the good Prof. above (whose books are also excellent, btw).  This one is truly a definitive work.  Among other wonders, the author explains &quot;compressability&quot; in a few short  sentences in a way that is instantly comprehensible -- that's a subject  I've seen butchered in dozens of books.  I guess being a retired avation  engineer helps.<br />This book isn't just large and comprehensive -- it's  really good.  It's well-written, well-organized, and just thoughtful on  every level.  Granted, you have to be sort of a maniac to buy a 600-page  $60 book on WW II fighters.  But if you're that kind of maniac, buy it now!	1999-01-08
US	53094239	RR0TLRQUGOKXD	0060961023	202279441	Taming Your Gremlin	Books	5	37	43	N	Y	Very Useful	I'm only about half way through this book, and am not a habitual reader of self-help stuff (my sister recommended this), but I'd have to give this one a serious thumbs-up.  I made a funny connection to an old novel by Colin  Wilson called &quot;The Mind Parasites,&quot; which also posits the  existence of a hostile voice within us that kills joy and sows  self-doubt.<br />I think it's interesting that the author distinguishes the  Gremlin from Freud's superego and Berne's inner Parent -- as one of the  reviewers said above, the notion that the Gremlin is really not us is very  interesting and potentially liberating.	1998-12-28
US	53094239	R3BQRMVEAOW1MV	0312183623	467902875	Hastened to the Grave: The Gypsy Murder Investigation	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent, a Little Offbeat	A solid book for Olsen, and something of a departure in its tone, which seems influenced by perhaps Carl Hiassen.  The idea of a funny true crime book about serial killers sounds a little strange, but Olsen pulls it  off.<br />The light it shines into the subculture of American Gypsies is truly  disturbing.  As is the portrait of authorities unable and unwilling to deal  with Gypsy crimes.	1998-11-20
US	53094239	R1FXTN1GTOJT30	0922915083	244000041	I Cried, You Didn't Listen: A Survivor's Expose of the California Youth Authority	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hope this One Gets Reprinted	This book deserves to be in print forever, not just for what it exposes  about youth facilities, but as a story that answers the question &quot;how  do violent criminals get to be that way?&quot;<br />I'm an absolutely  compulsive reader and have probably read 10s of thousands of books in my  life.  This one's on the very short list of the most memorable books I have  ever read.  The author really deserves to be commended for his courage in  telling this story, not to mention living through it.	1998-10-05
US	53094239	R2PIAUEFD4RXCI	0201694719	522974154	Database Design for Mere Mortals: A Hands-On Guide to Relational Database Design	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Ignore the Soreheads -- A Great Book	No, this is not the book for you if you have extensive experience in  software design and have already absorbed the basic concepts of database  design by osmosis.<br />This is a book for &quot;mere mortals,&quot; just like  it says.  I'm a reasonably smart, reasonably well-educated person who had  some computer experience, but didn't even really know what a relational  database was.  Through circumstances too odd to mention, I was given  primary responsibility for designing a commercial web application.  <br />I  read this book cover to cover, and designed the database that became the  core of the product. The product actually works, and seems to be selling.   Later in the development cycle, I worked with a brilliant MIT-trained  software engineer, and he found my basic db design just ducky.<br />I  definitely owe Mr. Hernandez a beer.  Figured writing this review was a  reasonable substitute.	1998-08-19
US	53094239	R249VSXQRPSP6R	0671636030	501723636	Fate Is the Hunter: A Pilot's Memoir	Books	5	65	66	N	N	A treasure	I'm a writer and an aviation enthusiast, not a pilot, but I'd have to rank this as one of the two best books I have read in the last decade, and far and away the best aviation book I have ever read.<br />This is a rare combination -- Gann not only has many wonderful yarns to spin but is a writer of truly top-drawer literary ability.  As others have said, the book stands up well to repeated reading.  My copy is battered and torn, but much loved.	1998-07-12
US	53094239	R1LR4BO2XO2I9Z	0385487517	73623014	Rat Pack Confidential	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gracefully Written, Wonderful Job	I've read a buncha stuff on this subject, and I really admire Levy's book.  He's an excellent writer, and has done a great job of distilling a mountain of material into a meaningful and enjoyable read.  His portraits of the individual Rat Packers are insightful and empathic, and I think he hits a perfect happy medium -- he neither tries to inflate the importance material nor turn the book into a sordid exercise in scandal-mongering.  He also makes a wise choice on the level of detail -- enough, but not too much.<br />Anything that reads this easily must have been a bear and a half to write.  <br />&quot;Rat Pack Confidential&quot; also paints a useful broad picture of various aspects of the history of popular entertainment, politics and organized crime in mid-Century America.<br />Nice job, Mr. Levy, and best o' luck in the future!	1998-06-08
US	53094239	R2BVZ8B6G93XTI	0873646533	140043795	Handgun Stopping Power: The Definitive Study	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A Must-Have and a Great Read	This is everything a reference book should be.  The authors have done a ton of research, gathered and collated &quot;street results,&quot; and written a book that is actually a great deal of fun to browse through (thanks in large part to the inclusion of many brief &quot;case histories&quot;).<br />They also get big points for examining accepted wisdom and analyzing the methodology of previous researchers.  One of the authors mentioned that he also attended 400 autopsies as part of his research for the book!<br />I bought this sight unseen for a gun-loving pal, based on good word of mouth.  Didn't get a chance to actually see it until a couple of weeks ago and was absolutely blown away.  So to speak.	1998-05-08
US	53094239	R8QZ81Q8MNKZF	067984502X	880654161	WATERLESS MOUNTAIN	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An Interesting Read	I read this for a college course on children's literature, so I'm not exactly a part of the book's target audience, but I find the snarky review above unjustified.  God help the poor pitiful humans in the 1930s for not being politically correct enough to please the Horn Book's reviewing staff.  And I guess religious values and a respect for nature is now to be dismissed pejoratively as &quot;mysticism.&quot; <br /> I thought the book was an interesting read, if, sure, a bit dated.  It's all the more interesting because the life it depicts -- life on the Navajo Res before the coming of paved roads, is slipping away from living memory.	1998-04-19
US	53094239	R2HELYCAUJWF3M	1888118040	933803023	Unintended Consequences	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	All this and wisdom too!	I wrote one of the first reviews of this book, now waaaayyyy down at the bottom of this page (would you guys get it over with and install discussion forums!?).  I'd just like to add something.  In addition to being a wonderful read, Unintended Consequences actually wised me up here and there.  I recently had sort of a personal crisis -- got promoted on January 1 and laid off the next day (don't ask!).  Rather than sitting around feeling sorry for myself for even half a day, I followed a bit of Ross's advice and immediately got up and put one foot in front of another (as I recall, this is a bit of advice Henry gets from one of his mentors in the book).  Within a couple of days I was working 12-16 hours a day on looking for a new gig, quickly got two offers, took the best of 'em, and am doing just fine.  It's now been &gt; a year since I read UC and it's one of those books that you just do not forget.	1998-02-11
US	53094239	R39BNPLZAY0LLS	0446349887	458978515	Breaker Boys	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Historical Novel	Hope someone reprints this.  An excellent novel of life in the company-owned &quot;coal patches&quot; of PA.	1997-11-04
US	53094239	R14R6A5EHQ3SQV	0226550141	753336026	Indexing Books (Chicago Guides to Writing, Editing, and Publishing)	Books	5	55	55	N	Y	Turned me into an indexer!	I just recently finished co-authoring my first full-length book.  It is an extremely technical medical manual, and my co-author and I decided that we needed to do the indexing ourselves, both to aid in document debugging and because, as the authors, we understand the material in a way that even a medical indexer would not.  I bought this book, read it twice and underlined it, took a deep breath, and then plunged ahead.  We made a couple of newbie errors early on, but Mulvany helped keep us on the true path.  And the index turned out very well.	1997-10-21
US	53094239	RYW6LMQ7T5624	068911723X	231798449	Spangle	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Real Winner	Someone should definitely re-print this one.  Spangle is one of the best historical novels I've ever read.  It can be a little formulaic in spots, but I still have strong memories of reading it almost a decade after the fact.  Hard to argue with that.	1997-10-10
US	53094239	R2VP16KZZZANO6	0844652024	502643985	Hard Living on Clay Street:  Portraits of Blue Collar Families	Books	5	4	4	N	N	You'll Never Forget It	This one is too good to be out of print.  Hope someone will re-print it.  &quot;Clay Street&quot; was written before the term &quot;underclass&quot; entered the popular vernacular, but the book is even more relevant now than it was in 1972 when it was first pulished.  Howell followed the lives of two families of &quot;hard living&quot; whites who had migrated from the rural south to Washington DC.  From a middle class point of view, their lives are horrifying, marked by an inability to plan, save, think about the future... Life is just one damn thing after another.  Anyone who still thinks that there is not a &quot;culture of poverty&quot; should read &quot;Clay Street.&quot;    &quot;Clay Street&quot; was often assigned as a college text in the 1970s, so copies can still be had on the used book market.	1997-08-03
US	53094239	R2A0OF38HKTKQI	0679449787	638192149	Neanderthal	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Maybe Next Time	John Darnton clearly did a lot of research on Neanderthals -- more than he had to and enough to make the book somewhat rewarding.  But the lack of basic craft skill is stunning.  Plot complications appear out of nowhere, inconvenient characters mysteriously get the vapors just as they are about to tie things in knots, and one of the characters actually packs &quot;a .345 magnum&quot; handgun (no such thing exists).  Still, there must be something there or I wouldn't have staggered this close to the finish line (I've got about 60 pages to go).  Darnton should study the works of folks who can write real plots and create real characters.  Or, better yet, maybe he should sell the film rights and quit while he's ahead.	1997-07-31
US	53094239	RG4KU6QPGW00X	1883791006	663491266	Now You're Cooking: Everything a Beginner Needs to Know to Start Cooking Today	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent	I'm a good cook, but had gotten woefully out of practice during many years as a bachelor, during which much of what I ate came out of a can or a takeout container.  When I got married, I grabbed this book, and immediately convinced my wife that I was a culinary genius.  The book is well-organized and nicely designed, the recipes are extremely tasty and clear, and the opening chapter tells you how to do \\"the eternal chores,\\" i.e. slicing an onion.  An excellent book to buy for anyone who needs a refresher course or an introduction to cooking.  Update from 2012 - This is the book that really brought me up to speed as a cook and got me started doing things the right way.  Many years later, I'm now known as a \\"gourmet cook\\" in our circle of friends (whatever).  I still use this book all the time - the recipes are written for absolute beginners, but they're also great recipes.  This is the best beginner's cookbook I've ever seen and I recommend it without reservation.  Hope it comes back into print someday.  It really deserves to be regarded as a classic.	1997-06-10
US	53094239	RHB2RMG1ZQ3X9	087131777X	624351861	Bloodletters and Badmen: A Narrative Encyclopedia of American Criminals from the Pilgrims to the Present	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Compulsively Readable	I'm not sure if Jay Robert Nash's various crime books are always the most accurate -- many of his mini-narratives seem to be distilled from various contemporary legends &amp; newspaper accounts.  But who cares?  Nash has a rare talent for writing little tiny compelling crime tales.  The biographies in this book are like M&amp;M's; you sit down to gobble a few and end up going through the entire package.	1997-05-15
US	53094239	R2AQRLEQAP4XTE	0822317451	817868684	The Avenue, Clayton City	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent	Read this book almosts a decade ago, and still remember it vividly.  Life in a small and very emphatically segregated Southern town just before WW II (but it might as well be 1890).<br /><br />C. Eric Lincoln is an academic type, and his knowledge of Black history informs the book without turning into a textbook.	1997-05-05
US	53094239	RL6XO9YNA9M9A	0822305747	677759495	The Beaches Are Moving: The Drowning of America's Shoreline (Living with the Shore)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A Classic	Pilkey argues that barrier islands move, whether we like it or not, and that attempts to stabilize them nearly always make things worse.  A wonderful read, especially for your next beach vacation.  Pilkey is regarded as something close to the devil incarnate by coastal developers and their allies	1997-04-04
US	53094239	R1QZEYDMJRK9IG	044021730X	519409366	The River Sorrow	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Excellent Writing, a Plot That Doesn't Let Up	I love reading detective/crime genre fiction, but am a real snob about good writing.  This one really makes it, both as crime fiction and as a damn fine novel.	1997-01-16
US	53094239	RIJXKDF62VYF8	0831743638	529041208	The Cook's Kitchen Bible: Over 150 Step-By-Step Techniques	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Best Cookbook I Own	I'm a good cook, but tend to like fairly simple fare (sort of meat and potatoes +).  I'm also fairly experienced, but might not know offhand, say, the proper way to peel a kiwi fruit or  exactly the right way to make an omelette.      If you come close to fitting that profile, buy this book!  It combines authoritative and beautifully illustrated tips  and tricks on cooking basics with several dozen wonderful  recipes.  The best meatloaf you've ever eaten.  The best  pancakes you've ever eaten.  The best beef stew you've  ever eaten.  The best scallion soup you've ever eaten.  And so on.  The recipes themselves are attractively presented   and not overly complicated (I manage them despite having a  toddler in the house).	1996-12-13
US	53094239	R2WL6Z3C6D5H2N	1888118040	933803023	Unintended Consequences	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Definitely a Must-Read	Well, I finished it, and if anything, it got better.  One of  those too-rare experiences of getting so caught up in a book that you almost mourn when it's over.  Truly thought-provoking.  The gun culture and the &quot;control&quot; culture may be on a real collision  course in America.  Anyone who wants to understand the clash  of cultures better should read Unintended Consequences.  Ross  is also quite a fine novelist, quite apart from his command of  the subject matter.  UC is a real page-turner, with excellent  plotting, pacing, and character development.  I would have  happily read another 850 pages!	1996-09-16
US	53094239	R34CUXCG2VYD1H	0899665748	532122493	Man-Eaters of Kumaon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enter a Vanished World	The world that Jim Corbett wrote about -- his life as a white  hunter of man-eating tigers and leopards in India early in this   century -- is as vanished as that of the Ancient Greeks.  The   Empire he believed in is gone, the beasts he stalked so relentlessly   are now themselves endagered species... But there's a reason his   books have remained in print for two generations.  He writes without   guile or pretention, revealing a great respect for the jungle and   for the animals he hunts, and also providing a window into the   imperial mentality -- a frank paternalism towards non-whites   and villagers in particular that in these politically correct   days is as refreshingly honest as it is shocking.  And one other   thing -- while Corbett is modest almost to a fault, he was a man   of remarkable courage.  Sometimes the only way to stalk a predator   is to let the predator stalk you.  His books have no shortage of   thrills and chills.	1996-06-07
US	53094239	R3GHOWCUVZB3QA	0896600122	834374	One Last Look: A Sentimental Journey to the Eighth Air Force Heavy Bomber Bases of World War II in England	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A brilliant evocation	The 50th anniversary of World War II led to the publication of a huge flotilla of coffee table books, some of them wonderful, some not.   This one, which includes hundreds of historic and contemporary photos  of the British bases of the Eighth Army Air Force, is the best of  the lot.  The team that produced the book has worked on other books,   including the enjoyable &quot;Little Friends,&quot; about the fighter pilots  of the European campaign, but in this volume it all comes together:  their eye for detail, their graphic sense, and their ability to   capture the look and feel of the 1940s, a time suddenly becoming very  distant as the war's last survivors begin dying.  This made a much  appreciated gift for my uncle, who flew with the &quot;Mighty Eighth.&quot;  But I couldn't let it go -- I had to buy another copy to keep.	1996-05-26
US	53094239	R2FDRQXC8LH0ZY	0520030680	82852746	The Parade's Gone By...	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An essential book for silent fans	We all have a few books that we plan to read every few years for the  rest of our lives: this is one of mine.  Brownlow's elegiac oral history of the days of silent film was done at the perfect time,   when the battles were over but while there were still enough living  survivors to tell the tale.  Brownlow captures the weird collision  of calculation and exuberance that defined early Hollywood.  One  history of recent events in Hollywood paints a typical picture  of life in the executive suite as being &quot;a bunch of tiny men in   designer jeans giving each other high fives.&quot;  T'was not always  so.	1996-05-26
