US	53091744	R3VDBS8FMN5IA0	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	141	146	N	N	Harrowingtale of survival	In 1819 the whaleship Essex was rammed and sunk by a very large sperm whale. The ship sank and the crew was forced to sail across thousands of miles of the Pacific ocean fighting thirst and starvation. This was the  story that inspired Melville's Moby Dick. It is absorbing, well researched,  and reads like a good adventure novel, only it is true. It is elegant from  start to finish and I say elegant because of its restraint. Philbrick had  every chance to play this one for the bleacher seats, but didn't.<br />We  could have gotten a long saga of castaways dying of thirst and starvation  with all of the drama of a potboiler. He could have given us a day by day  description of the sea trek, but instead the trek is mercifully taken up in  90 pages. (Don't fret, you will get the anxiety wobblies during this phase  of the book.) Philbrick has fully researched the physiology of dying of  starvation and thirst and spares us none of the details. To survive, the  crew resorted to the drawing of lots, execution and cannibalism. We learn  about the history, quite plentiful in fact, of survival cannibalism from  the Raft of the Medusa to the Andean plane crash. It is not a book for the  squeamish. <br />It is also a book about Nantucket, whaling, men at sea,  celestial navigation, maritime commerce, and more. Never are the facts  crammed down us like so many notecards in the author's collection, but are  deliciously laid out in the context of the story. It is not a long book,  but it doesn't seem to short either. Like most good books, it made me want  to learn more about the subject, in this case the fascinating history of  whaling.	2000-06-17
US	53091744	R35628CKKFTRK6	0684864223	129159315	Between Silk and Cyanide: A Codemaker's War, 1941-1945	Books	4	81	84	N	N	Making codes in WWI	First off I need to say that this was a fun read. The book was entertaining and informative. The author, Leo Marks, then in his early twenties, writes about his experiences as head of the British code section  for the group who devised, sent and received, and translated codes for the  men and women who went into Nazi occupied Western Europe to spy. <br />Marks,  a man who is now nearly 80, should be commended for putting down this rare  piece of history in writing, as most of the records of the London code  group have long since been destroyed, his memory is all we have. <br />Ok, now  this is a strange book. There is no doubt that is was written by Marks  himself as no ghost writer could have concocted such a weirdly written  text. It's annoying at first but one soon becomes used to it. For example,  when describing  a briefing he gave to a somewhat hostile audience:   <br />&quot;Mounting a mile long platform an inch at a time, I confronted a  large Nubian with crossed arms, which turned out to be a blackboard. He had  colored chalk chalks on his person where lesser men had testicles, and I  wrote my messages on his chest in block capitals which were twice their  normal size as I had half my normal confidence.&quot; <br />We have smiles  parachuting from his eyes to his lips; he remembers the excitement and  thrill of using the same loo that Churchill used; he remembers and recalls  the figures (nothing to do with coding) of many of the women who he writes  about. (He is a man of the 40's!) There is a gem on nearly every page. No  ghost writer could ever concoct this menagerie.<br />We do learn a lot about  the coding business, especially in making the codes. We learn about the men  and women who volunteered to spy, organize, and become part of the  Resistance. Who used the codes and their wireless sets to send back  information. A daring-do occupation as most of these agents were quickly  captured and executed by the Nazis. Or as Marks might say, &quot;They hadthe life expectancy of a crew in a yellow polka-dotted tank in  combat.&quot; <br />We learn that they fingerprinted the agent's Morse code  keying, as each had their own peculiar style, and this could be a tip off  if the the agent had been captured and Nazis had broken the code and were  doing the keying. <br />Most books on this subject concentrate on the breaking  of codes. We also learn some of the tricks of the espionage trade. There  are quips about lethal toilet paper, (scatology is his thing!) and of  agents blithely being sent in when some higher ups in London knew the cover  had been blown and Nazis would likely be the greeting party. <br />Like any  memoir that creates living and breathing scenes from events over half a  century ago, it is hard to imagine that the writer could remember each  frown, shrug of the shoulder, or other parts of the scene in such vivid  detail. We'll write it off as poetic license. <br />It is a very personal  book, made even more so by Marks &quot;distinctive&quot; style. It's a good  read and I give it  4 stars, taking one away for slightly annoying writing  style.	2000-06-08
US	53091744	R1OWZ4C252OUDI	0195132416	2568592	Visions of Jazz: The First Century	Books	5	45	46	N	N	The new standard jazz history	Gary Giddins has performed a remarkable feat. He has covered one hundred years of jazz history in one volume. At 700 pages it is big for sure but it is well researched and very readable. At first glance it appears that  Giddins has structured and organized the book in the worst possible way by  having one chapter on each of the seminal figures of jazz history, and in  semi chronological order. <br />The pitfall here is that it lends itself to a  book that looks like lots of note cards strung together. This structure can  also obscure the larger picture; jazz is not just the history of a bunch of  individuals. Giddins very skillfully avoids both of these traps. Each  chapter is well researched, filled with anecdotes about the musician or  group, and through the chapters flows the larger background of the historic  movements and issues in the development of jazz. <br />Giddins also approaches  jazz with a refreshing \\"inclusiveness\\" and wastes precious little energy in  defining what jazz is or in dismissing various movements as  &quot;unpure&quot; or other such nonsense. In fact he makes the point right  up front that jazz owes as much to popular music for its genesis as it does  to spirituals or black folk music. In the chapter on Irving Berlin he  points out that Tin Pan Alley was a mixture of black, Jewish and other  ethnic blends of music, and in fact, Berlin was even accused of having an  underground railroad of black song writers in his back room that he was  ghosting for. And this, at the time, was not meant as a compliment..<br />Of  course, jazz cannot be discussed in a vacuum and race plays an important  part in its history. Giddins adds two bits of trivia, which I find speak  volumes in themselves about where we are and where we have come from. One  was that Al Jolson lobbied Gershwin for the part of Porgy. He, thankfully,  did not get it. Second was that Ellington's all black orchestra played in  an Amos and Andy movie in the 30's and the producer had thelighter skinned  members of the orchestra blacked up with makeup for the scenes. I suppose  this was to dispel any idea in the minds of the movie audience that the  band might be integrated.<br />The book lacks a recommended discography, which  would have been valuable. Giddins does comment on the recordings of his  subjects in their respective chapters so that is a big help. There is a 2  CD companion set with the same title which is a nice-to-have but it is  largely an afterthought and the only connecting material is the 4 inch  square flimsy comment sheets that come with the CD which does not really  relate back to the book itself. <br />This is a essential book for any jazz  lovers library.	2000-05-30
US	53091744	R1VGSQX56WKA9H	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	5	84	95	N	N	Refreshingly covers new ground	Bob Park's excellent book takes up company with recent works in the same vein by Dawkins, Gould, Sagan, Kaminer, and others. It is good reading and entertaining though you may find your blood pressure soaring at times. It  seems idiocy knows no bounds.<br />Parks takes a slightly different approach  from most of the recent books challenging fringe science and discusses at  length how our elected representatives and the U.S. government has been  seduced into being advocates of voodoo science. Parks played a role as the  information officer for the American Physical Society which has given him  an inside view of how this has come about. <br />The book also takes a look at  our space program and Parks slices and dices manned missions versus robotic  ones. The robotic ones come out on top without much of a struggle. Though I  was aware that there was differences of opinion on this matter, I was not  aware of the magnitude of the problem and I found this information rather  startling and something not covered in any of the other similar books in  the field. I don't think Parks is trying to equate manned flight with  voodoo science but the discussion of the topic was something I found  valuable nonetheless.<br />If you have read the other recent books in this  field you may have had a deja vu all over again feeling as they each tended  to cover pretty much the same ground. Parks refreshingly expands the  playing field and really does provide some new approaches and new  information.	2000-05-29
US	53091744	R34ZZ0LYJNZKSH	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Question reality.	This is an excellent trip through the wonders of modern cosmology and physics. I kept having to get up and walk around the room once in a while and pinch myself to get a new reality fix. Well maybe reality -- but Mr.  Greene might think I was fooling myself and only moving about in the 3  dimensional space known to my conciousness, and not the other seven tightly  wrapped dimensions in Calabi-Yau forms at a billionth of a billonth of a  meter. Who needs science fiction when the real thing is so  &quot;unreal?&quot;<br />As a reader I have more than a casual interest in  modern physics and have read dozens of books in this vein, however I do not  have a math background sufficient enough to deal with the professional  literature in the field. I have found this work one of the best in  explaining string theory. Mr. Greene's approach of using analogy and  metaphor is right on target. His sometimes humorous approach was a good  antidote for what could become overbearingly theoretical.<br />The first half  went down pretty easily in spite of the difficult nature of the subject.  Brian Greene deserves much applause for pulling off this bit of magic. The  second half gets tangled up in the author's own areas of research and I  felt that he suddenly began talking to a different audience, in this case  his peers, and instead of an explanatory tone, the book seemed a little bit  argumentative. Of course this is a topic where anything said in a  definitive manner is likely to provoke a professional argument.  Nonetheless, the first half of the book is well worth the read and more  than adequately covers the field for the reader where this topic would be  of interest. The second half will be of interest to folks with more  background.	2000-05-22
US	53091744	R3527FFD0AB0Y1	0786705442	121686967	Shackleton	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Ice and more ice	If Hollywood had made up this story no one would have believed it. It's incredible. Two years on the ice, the ship has crushed in the ice and sunk -- no radio in those days! Drag your supplies and crew across hundreds of  miles of more ice to an barren island a thousand miles from nowhere, and  then go 600 miles across the icy Pacific in a whale boat navigating, mostly  by dead reckoning, to a tiny whaling island. It's not over yet, now you  have to cross a mountain range to get to the station on the other side of  the island. It's still not over, you then have to fight to find a boat to  go and rescue your crew stranded on that desolate island. Finally you find  a rusty Chillean tugboat willing to go. You rescue your crew and not a man  was lost!<br />If &quot;Apollo 13&quot; kept you on the edge of your seat,  this is your book. It's long but you will find yourself racing through it  to find out what happens next.<br />Hollywood, wake up! I vote for Dustin  Hoffman as Shack. Hmm. Tom Hanks maybe?<br />I also learned that the phrase  &quot;Great Scott&quot; referred to Shackleton's nemesis, Captain Robert  Falcon Scott.<br />Also consider the great picture book -- with some text --  &quot;The Endurance&quot; by Caroline Alexander. Frank Hurley, the  expedition's photographer, managed somehow to salvage his plates and these  are beautifully reproduced in Alexander's book. <br />After all of this your  will want a hot toddy and a warm bed!	2000-05-18
US	53091744	R3B3M665GP5TNA	0465076688	591748085	The Settlement Of The Americas A New Prehistory	Books	5	135	136	N	N	Not without controversy	At first glance this book looks like popular account of the early peopleing of North and South America. It is instead a serious semi-scholarly work -- a polemic if you will -- challenging long held  beliefs about the migration of people to the New World. <br />Dilleyhay is  best known for his archeological work at a site in Monte Verde Chile. After  nearly 25 years of hard work Dillehay has pushed back the time frame for  the earliest migration to around 15000 B.P. and hints that it could be  pushed back to 25000 B.P. or even further. Conventional wisdom has held the  Clovis people, known by their unique projectile points, were the earliest  migrants arriving here around 11000 B.P. Since 1930, says Dillehay, the  archeology community has held tenaciously to the Clovis belief and often  dismissing any contrary evidence, sometimes with great creativity. His work  has now convinced all but the most dedicated Clovisites within the  archeological community.<br />Falling along with the Clovis paradigm is the  long held belief of the ethnic origins of the earliest migrants. Dillehay  tiptoes about on these issues as they touch on sacred beliefs of current  Native Americans and he only briefly discusses these issues at the  summation of the book. You can almost hear the little voice inside him  saying &quot;Don't go there.&quot;<br />This is not a book for the casual  reader. Two of the chapters are chock full of brief discussions on sites,  dates, and the Who's Who of current archeology. In the appendix is 25 pages  of radiocarbon dates for various sites. There are many arguments concerning  bifacial vs unifacial stone tools and their implications. None of the book  was over my head though he did expect us to know what obsidian hydration  dating was.<br />Since this author stands out like an elk with a red bulls-eye  painted on him during hunting season, I fully expect some flame reviews  here in due time. <br />My interest is only slightly more than casual and I  have noarcheological expertise from which to judge his work in the total.  I did find the book of interest though it was bit more than I was looking  for. He is clearly arguing his point to his peers. It did however, whet my  appetite for a more general survey of this fascinating topic.	2000-05-15
US	53091744	RGW5ZZS8NQ9VJ	0944092691	543269792	Without Sanctuary: Lynching Photography in America	Books	5	28	28	N	N	How close? How far?	The review guidelines here at Amazon say: &quot;Your comments should focus on the book's content and context.&quot; This book's content is no less than the sum total of who we are as humans. It is a book not about  photographs, but about what photographs are about. <br />How far we have come.  Some of these photographs are less than 50 years old. Some of the folks  pointing and jeering in the crowd shots could have been my grandparents.  Yes, we've come a long way, but this book should also remind us of how  close we still are. <br />&quot;Memories&quot; was the theme of Kodak ads of a  decade ago. Photographs are memories but unlike memories in our minds, or  captured in text, photographic memories have a timeless reality about them.  <br />We live in a time of images. We've seen just about every conceivable  horrific image imagineable: a man's brains being blown out on a Saigon  street, Kent State College students mortally wounded on the campus  sidewalk, the Holocaust, and not to fret, still more to come  tomorrow.<br />Questions. Photographs like these ask questions. It is  inconceivable that I, or any of my friends, or that any of the readers of  these reviews could do such a thing or even be a party to such a thing.  Why? Are we that fundamentally different from our grandparents and great  grandparents? Are we who we are or are we a product of our time? If our  times change do we? I think in many of these other pictures where we see  this kind of injustice and brutality, we quickly identify with the victim.  That could be you or me bleeding on the sidewalk at Kent State. I would  never be party to such acts as these, and I find it appalling to even  contemplate it, but try as hard as I can not to, I can see myself in the  crowd in the lynching pictures. These were ordinary people in ordinary  places in ordinary times. Why would I have been any different? There is  where the real horror lies. <br />Question: What to do with the book now. Hide  it away with my other collection of photo books? Put it on the coffee table  to demonstrate: my bad taste in art?, my superior morality?, my love of  photography?, my unshockability?, or will I put it there to trap and shock  the shockable? This book does not have an easy place to exist.   This is  not a photography book. The book is about more than the photographs. The  pictures are about more than lynching. It is a powerful book and one that  should cause one to think. Photography can do that sometimes.	2000-05-07
US	53091744	R1DU85SRSCMD1J	0300081456	596394105	Marcel Proust: A Life	Books	5	73	75	N	N	Aa readable and sensitive biography	This is a dangerous book. If you have not read In Search of  Lost Time in all of its infamous 3000 pages and you pick up this book, beware. Chances are, like me, you will find yourself juggling this great biography, Vol 1.  of the Search, and Roger Shattuck's Proust's &quot;Way, A guide to In  Search of Lost Time&quot; all at the same time. <br />Carter's biography is  the first comprehensive one in 40 years and is based on much new  information not available in the Painter volumes of the late 50's and early  60's.  I ordered this biography and it immediately got me hooked. Proust,  in all his eccentricity (sometimes hilarious) comes off as a real and  likeable person. He is certainly a different person than the one living in  his corked lined room writing page after page describing the wallpaper in  his room that Dr. Kaufman taught us about in my 1958 high school World  Literature class. <br />At 800 pages, it at first appears to be a daunting  read. What could be more boring than the life of an aristocratic French  mama's boy never to earn more than a few  Francs on his own until way past  30 years. It is hardly boring. Proust was an exceedingly complex person.  (Aren't we all?)  Proust was plagued by asthma that his doctors kept  assuring him was psychosomatic in origin, and in some wisdom, he knew to be  otherwise. Living at home totally supported by his mother and father, he  lead an extravagant lifestyle, often leaving what amounted to $200.00 tips  to the carriage driver. It was a salon society and Proust was a member of  perhaps dozens. We tour the various salons and their status climbing  members and hosts. In Carter's thorough biography we get to see the society  of Proust in much the same way as he saw it.<br />Letters and more letters!  This was the time and place of letter writers but, whew! Proust would write  as many as three letters a day to his mother while living in the same  house. Letters to friends, lovers, enemies. Gads, it hardly seems like  there was time for anything else. <br />Some times the story of Proust becomes  surreal. It appears that being a critic in this time in France was almost a  death defying act. Trash a play or book and you were likely to be  challenged to a duel. Well a  sort of a duel, as by this time the duel was  important but nobody was aiming to kill. Proust had his manhood challenged  by a critic. Proust challenged the critic to a duel and it was accepted.  The time and place was 9:00 am in a woods outside of Paris. Proust  instructed his seconds to rearrange the time to 3:00 pm in the afternoon as  9:00 am was not a time when decent persons were up and about. Proust's  bullet strucked the ground inches from his opponent indicating he was  shooting to kill. Quite a dangerous mama's boy. <br />Carter handles Proust's  sexuality in a refreshing and matter of fact way. Neither making him into a  homosexual hero as some have done with Wilde -- though Wilde can take the  blame for much of that himself -- nor treating him as some sort of sexual  misfit. Sexuality permeated Proust's life and it often had no gender  associated with it, he was often smitten with the women surrounding him as  much as the men. Carter can be commended for his sensitive portrayal of  this essential part of Proust's life. <br />If Proust is your interest, or if  fin de siecle France is, this is a not to miss book. At 800 pages it is  quite and investment in time -- it's a bargain in dollar per word! -- but  if this era is your interest, it is well worth the investment.	2000-05-05
US	53091744	R2MJPJPFK560UF	0393049140	834359031	Proust's Way: A Field Guide to in Search of Lost Time	Books	5	140	143	N	N	The Search for the Lost Proust	It's like an addiction. First I order William Carter's great biography of Marcel Proust. It's brand new and at 800 pgs hardly an outline, but still quite a romp. After 300 pages I'm hooked. So I go order part I of the &quot;The Search for Lost Time&quot;. Ever since high school I've been  telling myself: someday, someday...Well I just turned 60 and it's now  someday. One hundred pages into &quot;Swann's Way&quot; and I am in a  swelter. Whoa... I knew Proust was not something one dips only their little  toe into. Luckily along comes my life raft!<br />I've been a fan of Roger  Shattuck ever since I read his The Banquet Years and he now, just in time,  he has this guide to Proust. Now I am juggling three books at once and one  of them 3000 pages in length. I think I should have started at age  50.<br />The guide has been a godsend! Shattuck can balance the academic with  the popular. Right off the bat you get hit with words like hypotaxis and  parataxis, but not to fret, he nicely explains in simple terms what they  mean. And he understands that not all of us stayed awake in French class  and kindly provides translations of the French quotes. Even better, he does  not sneer at those of use who will read the Search in English saying that  the newest translation is more than adequate. <br />Shattuck debunks the  common idea that Proust's Search is a prissy and doting exposition of the  ways and byways of the fin de siecle French upper class. Far from it.  Proust was a wicked observer with a keen sense of humor. Shattuck tells us  that: &quot;Reading Proust bears many resemblances to visiting a zoo. The  specimens he collected from the remotest corners of  society amaze and  amuse us in their variety.&quot; In fact there is a whole chapter in the  Guide on the comic vision in the Search. <br />The most important chapter in  the book for me at my entry point to reading the Search is &quot;How to  Read a Roman-Fleuve.&quot; Here is a multitude of tips on how to deal withmany of the complexities in the Search. He also points out that we must pay  attention and what seems to be going nowhere eventually comes together. And  he has lots more to aid the reader He has some nice charts for  keeping  track of &quot;places&quot;, &quot;characters&quot;, &quot;couples&quot;,  and &quot;scenes.&quot; There are other chapters on Proust's sources, the  length issue, etc. which I have skimmed through but I am sure they will  become more valuable as I penetrate further into the Search.<br />This is not  a book to read in place of reading Proust. It is clearly intended as a  guide to a first time reader or one re-reading the Search. If you do buy  it, you will be sorely tempted to read Proust's &quot;The Search for Lost  Time, which by the way is the newest translation of what was once called  &quot;Remembrance of Things Past.&quot; If you intend to read the Search,  this book is a must.<br />Now if I only new what a Roman-Fleuve was.	2000-05-03
US	53091744	R21T4OQHLQ0KMZ	0517707608	689479857	The Gilded Dinosaur: The Fossil War Between E.D. Cope and O.C. Marsh and the Rise of American Science	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Bones, bones, and more bones.	What could be drier than a book devoted to two men battling over collecting fossils and gaining the rights to name creatures extinct for over 100 million years - and this having taken place over 125 years ago at  that. Well it could be dry and stuffy but not when Mark Jaffe takes his  broad brush to his canvas and we find that intertwined in this story  traipse the likes of: P.T. Barnum, Red Cloud, Crazy Horse, George Custer,  and even Buffalo Bill Cody. We also will find U.S. Grant's cronies  siphoning off aid that was supposed to go to the Indians. Add to the mix a  few thousand Sioux warriors to liven up the story.  <br />At the core is the  story of O.C. Marsh and E. D. Cope in the 1870's building the foundation of  modern paleontology. These two totally different personalities immediately  began to clash and we have one of the more interesting personal warfares in  the history of science. Each built a coterie of supporters but at times the  various personae and the shifting of loyalties begins to make the story  seem like Tolstoy's War and Peace. <br />There is never a dull moment. We have  T.H. Huxley musing with O.C. Marsh's in Marsh's precious bone room at Yale.  We see Marsh banging on doors in Washington until he eventually meets with  Grant himself to try and right the injustice he sees happening to the  Indians. It's always a race against time and in his haste Cope puts the  head of one of his dinosaurs on the end of the tail. Marsh will forever  remind Cope and the world of his folly. True, an innocent enough mistake,  but in this world no one gives any quarter, especially Marsh.  <br />Is it  political infighting you like? Like really nasty stuff? You've got it. In  Jaffe's remarkable book we have our friendly bone hunters smashing precious  fossil skeletons when packing up and leaving a site so the other guy can't  get them. We have letter writing campaigns smearing reputations so that  opponents won't get fellowships in prestigious societies. One side will  hire away the other's help in the field. Bone hunters making $90.00 a month  for working winters digging in the Wyoming wilderness have no  loyalties.<br />Humor? Just imagine Sioux warriors trying to make any sense  out of these crazy men working feverishly hauling wagons with tons of bones  out of the wilderness. The Sioux were at first certain that these men were  seeking gold but when they saw them hauling out wagons of rocky bones, they  new they were crazy. Not only the Sioux, just imagine any settler in those  days making sense out of this seeming madness. <br />Jaffe keeps our interest.  He can intertwine all of these fascinating mini-stories without loosing  sight of the main theme of Marsh and Cope. His research is impeccable and  he is able even to give a good picture of the forces at work in the Indian  Wars of the 1870's.  <br />Oddly enough this is not a book about dinosaurs or  paleontology per se. The critters and their bones are only an adjunct to  the tale being told. You will not learn much about the dinosaurs and other  extinct animals. Lots of names pass by but unless you have some previous  knowledge of dinosaurs, most of this is just names, but then it is not  essential to the understanding of the story to know your beasts. The real  story is the personal warfare between Marsh and Cope and how this colored  the politics of the West and influenced scientific institutions. So even if  dinosaurs are not your thing -- if history, the West, or how science really  operates in the real world are, or maybe you just like a good story, don't  miss this book.	2000-04-09
US	53091744	RYDE9BTPZZRIX	0670887978	98285160	The Holy Bible: King James Version / The Pennyroyal Caxton Bible	Books	5	35	37	N	N	More than just the Bible	Now this has to be one of the weirder things in life: writing a book review of the Bible!<br />I have to admit that I'd like to own the Deluxe edition, but $30,000.00 is a bit beyond my means at the moment, and the  Primary edition at $10,000.00 is a bit much too. These are very limited  collectors editions. Here we have the everyman's edition at a reasonable  price.<br />Whether one is religious or not, this book is a treasure. It is  fully case bound and ripe with the delicious woodcuts of Barry Moser. The  woodcuts are stunning and his work compares to best of Rockwell Kent and  Leonard Baskin -- and that is saying a lot!<br />Now I have to confess: I have  not read it through... well parts here and there, but with this great book  in hand, I just might. I am not a religious person, but do I view the bible  as one of the great pieces of literature and part of the Western Canon. I  have always found the standard floppy bible format difficult to read with  it tiny type, and wrinkly paper. Also I've never been able to ignore those  numbers. The Pennyroyal does not used numbered verses. It is also laid out  in two column justified newspaper style. The format and type is designed  for reading. It's beautifully typeset in Matthew Carter's Galliard and  Mantinia fonts.<br />The downside and the upside is that it is in the King  James version with New Testament included. The downside is it is full of  howbeit's and art not thou's, not a language that falls off ones tongue.  The upside is that it is King James, and if one wishes to read it as  literature, all of the great references that have been made in the Canon  are from the King James.<br />Believer or nonbeliever, heretic or saint, this  book belongs on everyone's shelf -- better yet, in your lap.	2000-03-05
US	53091744	R3HHQAB9TJQ3IV	0812921984	877017122	The Chunnel: The Amazing Story of the Undersea Crossing of the English Channel	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Overwrought with financial details	When I bought the book I was hoping this would be another classic like the Great Bridge by David McCullough. No way. It's a shame too as the Chunnel project was as great an engineering feat for our time as the Brooklyn  Bridge was in its. The book, for me, was overwhelming in its details of who  did what when, and mostly then it focusses primarily on the financial and  political aspects of the project. It might make a good reference book, but  unless your hobby is financing mammoth engineering projects, it is pretty  grim. <br />The Chunnel has to be one of the most interesting and exciting  engineering projects of the second half of the 20th Century and here it is  just one big yawn. <br />David McCullough, we have a new project for you.	2000-02-26
US	53091744	RMGD6KNFNWVWZ	0684811790	238395936	Explosive Acts: Toulouse-Lautrec, Oscar Wilde, Felix Feneon, and the Art & Anarchy of the Fin de Siecle	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Destined to be a classic.	A delightful read. David Sweetman follows up his biographies of Gaughin and Van Gogh with another masterpiece biography. This is not only a book about Toulouse-Lautrec and his art, but also a broad sweeping look at his  time and place. We are transported back to the Moulin de Gallete and the  Moulin Rouge, which were two of the great dancehalls of Fin de Siecle  Paris. Lautrec, a pretender to noble birth, broke with the \\"prettiness\\" of  the by then established Impressionists by painting and drawing the scenes  around his table at the dancehalls and clubs in seedy Montmarte section of  Paris. <br />Lautrec went to great lengths to hide his louche activities from  his prim and proper \\"aristocratic\\" doting mother even to the point of  editing his painting for exhibitions to just proper portraits and leaving  out the club scene paintings.  She, as Sweetman suggests, was guilt ridden  over her marriage to a 1st cousin when also her parents and her husband's  parents were the results of close consanguinal marriages as well. This,  Sweetman concludes, resulted in Lautrec's congenital defects and dwarfism.  <br />The text is sprinkled with interesting tidbits. We learn that the  Can-Can is not the movie version, but a dance that was participated in by  the customers as well. Why the scandalousness of the Can-Can? It isn't too  hard to figure out when it is explained that the dancehalls hired men to  police the dances making sure that the women had their knickers on. Many of  the girls in the club were surviving their low paid day jobs by picking up  customers in the clubs. Knowing that changes our reading when we see them  gaze at men in Lautrec's paintings. In his mother's eyes, this was not a  place for a man of Lautrec's breeding. Lautrec thrived on it.<br />Even at 500  dense pages and epic in sweep, the book is highly readable. We get to meet  Oscar Wilde, the chic anarchist Felix Feneon, and a host of other  interesting characters. Valadon and Jane Avril make repeatedentrances as  lovers and friends of the now syphilitic Lautrec. We get to see the  fashionable anarchist scene turn violent. We see Lautrec with his  innovative posters (scandalizing his mother when they showed up on manure  carts!) inventing modern day advertising. <br />Sweetman makes the scene come  alive, his research appears to be impeccable, and his critiques of  Lautrec's art is on target. If you have any interest in art history at all,  this is a must read book. I wish there was a 10 star rating!	2000-02-25
US	53091744	R3OUPV8EKG00TH	0385493258	868309573	Ingenious Pursuits: Building the Scientific Revolution	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A good book with a few problems	Lisa Jardine, who by the way is Jacob Bronowski's daughter, has written a lucid commentary on the rise of science in the late 17th Century. Her main  thesis is to show the social interactions that fuel scientific  investigation. The book succeeds in showing that science is not the lonely  pursuit of societal misfits as so often characterized in the popular  culture, but that of fertile social interactions between men and women of  science. (Yes there are a few women here, though they necessarily remained  behind the scenes due to the strict social conventions of the time.)   Ms  Jardine presents us with an exciting cast of characters, and in fact, many  are the same folks inhabiting Ian Pears great novel, The Instance of the  Fingerpost. This was truly an exciting period in the development of  science. <br />We have Robert Hooke, experimenting on himself with emetics and  purgatives loaded with antimony, arsenic, mercury and a host of weird  botanical extracts. In his diary, he complains of misty vision and ringing  in the ears, so to cure these symptoms, he takes more of the same. The  symptoms of course are those of heavy metal poisoning. Interestingly, this  was the age of \\"holistic\\" medicine, where the whole body was treated and  where the cures did not target specific symptoms and maladies. <br />There is  Boyle with his vacuum chamber snuffing out little critters in front of the  Royal Society. Not to be outdone by his evacuated fauna, he himself went  into a chamber to be evacuated. Lucky him -- the system failed. Some of  this group of eminent scientists did have serious qualms on the common  practice of dissecting live dogs (vivisection). This was in the age before  anesthesia. <br />I found it interesting that Jardine, near the end of the  book, comments that this group (largely English with a few Continentals  thrown in for good measure) was heavily focused on biology and  classification. This was the great era of collecting of biological samples  and thefocus was not on physics, which was ultimately to be the hinge pin  of modern science. I disagree and feel that this focus on classification  pointed the way for Charles Darwin, and he had as much to do with the  advance of science in the 20th Century as any physicist.  <br />I would have  liked more explanations of some of the science and technology being  discussed. Jardine assumes that everyone knows how a quadrant works.  Boyle's engine is explained in one sentence. Most of the workings of the  science goes unexplained. There is no explanation of Hooke's watch balance  though it consumes much of several chapters. Most of the technology is  skipped over. Granted this is not the focus of the book, but much of this  knowledge remains above the level of even the serious amateur science  reader. My suspicions are the lack of information in this area is the  result of publishers editing. (Hey -- No one wants all that crap!)  <br />Another problem is that the cast of characters is so large that the book  skips along from person to person and experiment to experiment without much  depth. Despite these structural shortcomings the book is a good read. I  The Instance of the Fingerpost by Ian Pears, which goes a long way to  giving one the flavor of the science and of having lived in this period of  time.	2000-02-15
US	53091744	R3JJI8Z5DY1NUT	068815087X	18054547	The Lost Tomb	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Waiting for Vol 2.	This is your book if:<br />-You have had a casual interest in things ancient and Egyptian for over 50 years.<br />-You have had fantasies of being an archeologist yourself at one time.<br />-You are not going to lose any sleep over a mislabeled mummy in an illustration.<br />-You are not totally focused  on the KV5 tomb - there's more here.<br />-You would like an inside peek at  archeology in the works.<br />-You have no interest in playing a role in the  inside politics of contemporary Egyptology.<br />-You bust a gut laughing over  the idea that Martians built the pyramids.<br />-And you have some time to  spend; because once you start, you won't want to put it down.<br />A terrific  tour de force. I loved the side trips and comments about working in a  tourist Mecca much like monkeys in a zoo,  I didn't find it disjointed or  fragmented either.	2000-02-04
US	53091744	R23AWKHPQM4FN6	0679442650	362375459	Mother Nature: A History of Mothers, Infants, and Natural Selection	Books	2	35	99	N	N	A good piece of feminist theory	I have to confess, I've only gotten about 100 pages into the book, I am starting to choke on it, and I can't go any further. Hrdy definitely has an agenda and she seems to want to sledgehammer the square facts into round  holes. I am sure there is lots to be learned about human behaviour from  langur monkeys but any great leaps should be done carefully and with a  great deal of caution. Hrdy takes it on faith that monkey behaviour can  easily be extrapolated into human behavior.  <br />I love debunking, but only  when it is supported by solid facts and good logic. Hrdy proposes that  females want to provide quality care for infants and children whereas the  males are looking for quantity. She then moves to the primate world and  uses examples of monkey infanticide, etc to provide an evolutionary  justification to support her thesis. She says that maternal self sacrifice  is rare except in older mothers. Not being a primatologist, I have to take  that on faith. <br />The work comes off as if primatology was a branch of  feminist theory. The facts seem to have been sought out to support a  preconceived gameplan. So far she hasn't been too keen on pointing out  exceptions to her examples. It's so cut and dry as she presents here case  that it leaves me uneasy. Aren't their primatology peers that disagree with  her? In good books of this nature one can often detect an internal argument  going on, so far none here.<br />The subject of the book is one that could be  interesting but the internal dogmatics get in the way. Had it been  advertised as a good piece of feminist theory, I might have been kinder to  it. As science it is suspect.	2000-01-19
US	53091744	R26IWX3ROMRYMJ	1880559935	430788329	Historic Photographic Processes: A Guide to Creating Handmade Photographic Images	Books	5	64	64	N	N	The ultimate alt-photo book	First a disclaimer: I am the inventor of the Ziatype process described in the book. <br />The title is a little misleading since it says \\"historical processes.\\" The book focuses on photo processes that are used largely in  art photography and do not involve the normally used silver paper or color  paper. Yes, many of these processes were used for photography in its  earlier years and are &quot;historical,&quot; but these processes are most  often referred to as \\"alternative photography&quot; now. If you are a  photographer and are looking for a respite from the ordinary, this is your  book.<br />This book replaces the now quite dated Keepers of Light first  published in 1979. Since that time, and to the credit of Keepers of Light,  alternative photography has grown considerably. This book is excellent and  takes in much of the later developments and knowledge of the field.  <br />Farber's treatment is lucid, well illustrated, and takes a hands-on  approach. Despite the advances in alternative photography, many of the  materials previously available have disappeared from the marketplace.  Farber takes this into account and I particularly found his chapters on  bromoil and carbon printing to be valuable as he discusses the use of  modern bromide papers for making bromoil prints and also how to make your  own carbon tissue. <br />This book belongs on the shelf of every serious  darkroom photographer. If you are a photographic collector, I would also  advise buying a copy even if you never intend to make an alternative photo  print. There is a wealth of succinct information here that would be  valuable for any collector wanting to understand the nature of many earlier  photographic print-making processes.	2000-01-17
US	53091744	R16AX5JKJ9E2NX	0801852633	443004460	George Eastman: A Biography	Books	5	46	50	N	N	Eastman comes alive as a real person.	George Eastman was one of the seminal figures in the development of photography. Eastman was the founder of the Eastman Kodak Company. Brayer's scholarly biography is long and definitive. <br />Eastman was perhaps the  first scientist-engineer entrepreneur, a model followed later by men like  Edwin Land and Bill Gates. Brayer skillfully weaves his engineering feats  with his financier skills into a highly readable biography. Eastman was  like Gates and Land, a hands-on entrepreneur. Stories abound about  Eastman's midnight haunts through his factory, showing up in the wee hours  unannounced to some startled employee working late on a project. <br />I was  constantly amazed at Eastman's ingenuity. Eastman the inventory of flexible  film, made his first commercial batches by spreading the celluloid out on  level 100-foot long glass topped tables. It wasn't until many years later  they finally found a way to machine make it.  <br />For my taste there was far  too much information on the architecture and building of Eastman House.  Since Brayer, as I understand it, was or maybe still is, an employee of  Eastman House, now a foundation supported museum of photography, this is  understandable. I did find it amusing that Eastman used Belgian imported  glass plates that were to be used in the factory as a film base as window  glass in the House. Window glass will have an occassional ripple or bubble,  but not these. George always had to have the very best. <br />Brayer has shed  some new light on several of the patent infringement lawsuits that went  against Eastman. <br />In many biographies, the subject is just that, a  subject. Brayer does an exceptional job of bringing Eastman to life. If you  have an interest in photographic history or in financial history, this is  an exceptional book. This is the first freely written biography of Eastman.  Earlier attempts were quite controlled by the Trust and Eastman himself.	2000-01-13
US	53091744	R3T1027CQNY9W	0679764216	38187311	A Life of Picasso; vol. I: The Early Years, 1881-1906	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Monumental but readable too	Richardson in his landmark biography of Picasso gingerly walks through the minefields that have been laid in the 100+ years that Picasso has been on the art scene. Picasso is near enough to being our contemporary that it would have been nearly impossible for Richardson to have treated him fairly  in the minds of many. One of the foremost issues recently raised, is his  attitude towards women and his treatment of his lovers and wives. As for  what can be gleaned from this and Vol II, Picasso was probably about  average in this respect for a man of his time. Richardson seems to have  intelligently not taken the bait and endulged in defending the past against  the present.<br />Since Richardson knew Picasso as an intimate friend, there  is an air of familiarity that pervades the work. I really enjoyed the  feeling of immediacy and of being there when it happened that Richardson  has so skillfully woven into the book. In comparison, Simon Schama's  monumental biography of Rembrandt (and Rubens) reads more like a peek at  the past. Schama can be excused since the passing of nearly 400 years makes  writing in the immediate mode difficult and maybe even a little  pretentious.<br />Though definitely not hagiaography, Richardson  does treat  his subject almost like a doting father, but loving his child warts and  all. As to the work being a defense of Picasso in his rivalry with Matisse,  one could only read that into the work if one was a rabid Matisse fan. I'm  sorry but, Matisse being the giant that he was, was no Picasso.<br />The book  flows like a river. I was truly transported back into Picasso's life and  social scene. I found the artistic analysis of his work to be on target and  written without much academic showing off or mumbo-jumbo. If you are  looking for a Post-Modernist deconstruction of Picasso, it (thankfully!)  isn't here. The historical coverage of Picasso's social circle is excellent  and made me want to have been able to attend some of the Picasso's  tertulias at Lapin Agile. What an exciting time it must have been. <br />I  flashed on Roger Shattuck's book The Banquet Years, which also transports  the reader back to Paris in the years 1895 to WW I. Shattuck's book would  be a good companion piece or primer for the Richardson series. <br />I saw  Richardson give a lecture in 1998 at the College of Santa Fe. He does  appear to be along in years and is definitely no Lapin Agile himself. From  the gleanings of an after lecture discussion in the hallway with  Richardson, it appears that Marylin McCauley, his collaborator on the  project, is equally a writer and Picasso scholar and will be the  torchbearer for the future editions. My own suspicions are that she may  have been the major writer on Vol II. Since Vol II ends only in 1917, there  appears to be at least  2 and possibly 3 more volumes to come. This is  truly a monumental work and one that reads well. It could have easily  turned out to be a &quot;reference&quot; biography reading  like a bushel  of note cards strung together. <br />I highly recommend it and the whole  series. (I am confident enough that the ones to come will be as exciting.)  Not only good brain medicine for a Modern Art enthusiast but fun reading  too.	2000-01-09
US	53091744	R3VYQNBXNIUPYL	0679444351	190687028	Time, Love, Memory: A Great Biologist and His Quest for the Origins of Behavior	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Don't believe everything they taught you	... This is a great book by the Pulitzer Prize winning author of Beak of the Finch. It moves right along and was a cliff hanger, it kept me on the edge of my seat waiting to see which next of my cherised beliefs was going to dashed in the name of science.<br />...<br />If you think that human nature is largely a result of nurture and you wish to hang on to this belief for dear life, be very afraid, this is not your book.<br />The book is well written with lots of interviews and original research by the author who already has proven his chops as a science writer. If biology, evolution or genetics is an interest, this is your book.	2000-01-09
US	53091744	R2NP71NVRMN122	067446706X	59924244	Mystery of Mysteries : Is Evolution a Social Construction	Books	5	59	62	N	N	More than it seems	This book is a lot more than it seems. On the surface it is a book about evolution and current evolutionary thinking. Behind the scenes it is a great dissertation on contemporary science and the modern misuse of  science. <br />Ruse, who is a philosopher, has written an engaging book and  though is not an easy read. He won't choke you on philosophical jargon.  Though it is not a beginner's book on evolutionary thinking, it is easy to  digest for someone with some modest knowledge of the field. <br />Mystery of  Mysteries begins by showing the two polar philosophers of modern scientific  thought: Thomas Kuhn who is best known for &quot;The Structure of  Scientific Revolutions&quot; and Karl Popper who wrote many books on  science but a good example would be &quot;Logic of Scientific  Discovery.&quot; Kuhn comes down on the side that scientific reality is  based in culture. Popper says science is independent of culture. Ruse then  goes on to use a number of evolutionary scientists and their works to show  the push and pull between these two poles. Gould, Lewontin, Wilson, and  others, share the spotlight for a chapter.  <br />It's a great book on  contemporary evolutionary biology and philosophy. Ruse also gives us a  grand tour of the movers and shakers, and their thinking and personalities.  We also get some glimpses of the vicious infighting going on between the  camps. But it is much more than this. The biologists and their ideas are  only a foil for Ruse to discuss the issues that confront science today. I  found it to be a worthy guide to scientific thinking. There is a wealth of  ammunition here to be used when one is confronted by much of the irrational  garbage that passes for logical thinking today. <br />Though Ruse does not  bash Kuhn directly one can see his star gradually fade as the book  progresses. Taking Kuhn to its ultimate conclusion, one would have to  declare that scientific truth is a consensus of opinion and not fact. Kuhn  has become the darling of Post Modernists for this very reason. Karl popper  comes of as a breath of fresh air.<br />Anyone who calls himself or herself a  Skeptic should consider this required reading. If evolutionary biology is  your thing, or if you are at all interested in how science works, or if you  are interested in the philosophy of science, order it now.	2000-01-06
US	53091744	R3UJTVATGSWR1G	067940256X	566124428	Rembrandt's Eyes	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Exhausting but well worth it	I can't help comparing this work with John Richardson's multi-volume &quot;Life of Picasso&quot; series. Rembrandt's Eyes will surely appeal to anyone hooked on Richardson's half finished series. Richardson's &quot;Lifes&quot; seem to slip right along with the reader going for the  ride. Schama on the other hand, demands a lot of the reader. Picasso is  contemporary enough that Richardson could give us some realistic glimpses  into Picasso's social life and recreates the mood at his Tertulia's. Schama  does not recreate social scene so that you felt that you were there as  Richardson has done with Picasso. <br />Schama is a glutton for detail. We not  only learn of Rembrandt's teacher-mentor with whom he apprenticed, we learn  about the teacher's teacher, and then the teacher's brothers. I often found  myself wondering what all of this has to do with the subject at hand.  Sometimes Schama's digressions and fascination for detail appears to be  intellectual showing off.  Schama is also fond of dropping off names of  items of 17th Century Dutch life as if everyone knew what they were. <br />The  reader should be forewarned that the title `Rembrandt's Eyes' might lead  one to think that this book is about Rembrandt. It is not only about  Rembrandt, but also about Peter Paul Rubens, the Calvinist versus Catholic  conflicts in Holland and Flanders, and any other article of Dutch and  Flemish history that he could remotely tie in. <br />Schama frequently presents arguments pro  and con that are clearly aimed at Rembrandt scholars. Not unusual for a  book of this caliber and it does does not impede the casual reader too  much. It is interesting to note that Schama was not up till now an art  historian but he seems to have slipped on the garb quite nicely.<br />I found  Rembrandt's Eyes exhausting but well worth the effort. Don't expect a tight  concise biography of Rembrandt, but rather a romp through 17th Century art  history.  By the word, page, or picture, a stunning value.	2000-01-05
US	53091744	R1QX8UXBIBRQFG	0393319504	23611299	The Voyage of the Narwhal: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A gripping story well researched	Ms. Barrett has obviously done her homework as the technical and historical details of this classic tale of arctic exploration ring true. I found the love story between Zeke and Livinia to be largely extraneous and  felt the continuous change of scenes from the ice to Livinia's setting to  be disconcerting. It has the feeling of having been patched in later. I can  hear the editor now: &quot;We need some love interest here. You have a  large contingnent of women readers and they need this. They will become  bored with all this guy stuff if you don't.&quot; Of course, al shear  bunkum. <br />True, the love story does provide some relief from tension of  those trapped in the ice, but that is the point, that tension should not be  relieved. <br />After you've read this engrossing piece of fiction, read a  true story: Shackelton, by Roland Huntford and live the unrelieved tension  of being trapped in the ice for better than two years.	2000-01-03
US	53091744	R1FUXF41A1TSVC	0691026068	503525538	Charles Darwin: A Biography, Vol. 1 - Voyaging	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Can't wait for Vol 2!	Janet Browne has written quite a cliff hanger. She leaves off just when Charles Darwin is going public with his then astounding theory. Hopefully Volume II is just around the corner. The agony is unbearable.<br />Darwin's  life is painted with a broad brush. We are given a picture of natural  science in Mid-Victorian England. All the players and issues taking place  in natural science at that time are illuminated.  Miraculously Browne pulls  this off without becoming tedious, exhausting, or overhwelming the reader.  It's quite a feat. <br />Browne gives us a peek inside Charles Darwin and we  can feel the pull between what is becoming clearly evident to him and the  deeply ingrained beliefs of a man who earlier in life was headed for a life  as a country parson. He was also upset at how all of this was going to  settle on his deeply religious wife. Browne manages this without falling  into the trap of psychological analysis, Freudian or otherwise.<br />I wish  all biographies could be as readable and as lucid as this one. As another  reviewer here has said: this will become the definitive biography of  Darwin's life. I agree. I would rate this book in the top 10 of books of  all time on the history of science. Seeing how Darwin is still at center  stage in the fight for science education in our schools, this book should  be required reading for anyone interested contemporary education or  science.	2000-01-03
US	53091744	R31WNTZHI1CBMO	0345401956	833729860	Ancient Mysteries	Books	4	62	64	N	N	A rational look at the ancient world	When I first saw the title &quot;Ancient Mysteries&quot; I was immediately put off by the title and thought: here goes another &quot;aliens built the pyramids&quot; New Age woo woo book. My closer read of the editorial  reviews at Amazon indicated the book took a more sensible  approach.<br />Authors James and Thorpe do a great job of going through the  various architectural and technological wonders of the ancient world. The  book is a compendium of loosely linked chapters and the sections could  easily be read backwards without losing much meaning.<br />Though the book  does a lot of debunking of fringe archeology, it does it in a very  effective way. Rather than hitting hard at some of the fringe theories  right up front, the authors do their best to present those theories in the  best light possible. Often they got me hooked on them. Then they very  gently begin to tear down the theories with hard evidence. (Which is often  ignored or conveniently overlook by the fringe proponents.) I constantly  felt the little voice inside me going &quot;Uh oh...&quot; <br />You won't  come away with any great understanding of the ancient world, the authors  cover far too much ground for that. You will however have a fun -- and  extensive read, and will gain some insight into how science and archeolgy  work together.<br />I was a little disappointed that they barely covered some  of the issues concerning the ancient Pueblo sites here in New Mexico.	1999-12-24
US	53091744	R2NR0SUCVCJ1ZB	0691026068	503525538	Charles Darwin: A Biography, Vol. 1 - Voyaging	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Reads like a novel	Though it never lacks for details about Darwin's life, Janet Browne creates a panoramic sweep of Victorian science. One sees Darwin in full context, as a man of his time struggling with ideas that grew from his research and explorations and yet they were ideas that he himself was not  truly comfortable with. <br />Browne presents the story without a lots of  overdramatization. The book is hugely dramatic though the drama comes from  the details and not the presentation. It is not a hagiography. There no  kettle drums rumbling in the background. <br />When you read the book you will  gain insights into how science grew from an amateur affectation of  afternoon beetle collecting trips to the countryside, to a fully recognized  profession. Browne miraculously pulls this off without ever leaving sight  of Darwin and his life.<br />Like a good &quot;Perils of Pauline&quot;  Saturday morning serial, the volume I leaves off at the most incisive part  of Darwin's career, thus leaving thousands of readers waiting breathlessly  for Volume II. <br />The book seems so complete so I passed on reading any  other biographies of Darwin, but I did find Adrian Desmond's Huxley : From  Devil's Disciple to Evolution's High Priest to be a good companion work and  interim filler. T.H. Huxley took up Darwin's cause and became known as  &quot;Darwin's Bulldog&quot; This was however just one role that Huxley  filled. Huxley himself is also giant of the emerging science movement in  Victorian England. <br />I feel that part of my life is missing until  Browne's Volume II arrives.	1999-12-20
US	53091744	R2WRQKYG43K5JL	0865475784	610314536	The Potato: How the Humble Spud Rescued the Western World	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The lowly spud?	Nothing could be more boring than the potato. Well maybe not. Larry Zuckerman in the, Potato: How the Humble Spud Rescued the Western World takes the lowly tuber to new heights. Being of Irish and Anglo Irish  extraction, the great famine has always struck a chord with me. I've read  Ship Fever by Andrea Barrett which brings home the horror of the famine but  I've always been a bit puzzled about it. It is hard living in the age of  plenty to understand this event. Why not eat something else if the potato  crop goes bad and skip the fries and just eat the Big Mac?   Zuckerman's  fine book explains the inner workings of the famine. A loaf of white bread  could cost most of a days wages leaving nothing else for rent, clothes, or  other necessities. The potato was a miracle crop. It would grow where most  other crops failed. It was almost a complete diet and provided the much  needed vitamin C. It was not labor intensive like grain and did not require  an oven, which very few could afford. <br />The book covers a lot more than  the famine and is a wealth of detail about the lowly tuber. Ministers  decried it and blamed the Irish population boom on its supposed aphrodisiac  qualities. The potato was originally grown for beasts and by definition was  unfit for humans. It was easy to grow so therefore encouraged laziness,  thus confirming English suspicions.  It was not mentioned in the Bible so  add one more strike against it. <br />The Potato is anything but boring. After  you've read, it you'll never look at a potato the same way again. I'd love  to see Zuckerman do the same treatment on rice.	1999-12-18
US	53091744	R20XJ54ZI7SAF2	067944243X	642454765	Sleeping with Extra-Terrestrials: The Rise of Irrationalism and Perils of Piety	Books	2	107	117	N	N	A marginal book at best.	The very first words in the introduction by Kaminer are: &quot;Before I begin my critique of irrationalism, I have a confession to make: I go to a homeopath.&quot; She then goes on to explain how homepathic medicine has  helped her. She also states in her defense that &quot;I have [only] the  vaguest understanding of antibiotics.&quot; One hour on the Internet would  have provided her with a wealth of sites explaining in laymen's terms how  antibiotics work. <br />Later on she dismisses out of hand any research into  differences between men and women stating: &quot;Of course, my own  perspective on research on cognitive sex differences is bound to be colored  by my belief in the justice of sexual equality.These are puzzling  statements from one professing to make the case for rational thinking. To  confuse equality with sameness is almost a point of disqualification for  one professing to be an expert in this area. Of course, she could believe  in sexual equality and still see that men and women have cognitive  differences. She seems quick to dismiss any empirical evidence that she  thinks might challenge one of her cherised beliefs, something she  criticizes others for doing throughout the book. There is a ton of good  solid research in this area (much of it being done by women, surprised?)  that she ignores or dismisses out of hand as being sexist in nature.<br />The  book on the whole is about average. If you have read or are familiar with  much of the current thinking in the skeptics or rationalists movement most  of her points will be old hat. There doesn't seem to be any central themes  or points she wants to make, and it mostly comes off as one reviewer says  here as a rant. It also comes off as books often do, as note cards strung  together.<br />For a dollar or two more buy:<br />Unweaving the Rainbow: Science,  Delusion, and the Appetite for Wonder By Richard Dawkins. It's a much  better book and the writer does not confuse his on desires with  rationalism.	1999-12-13
